     The noise was ended now. The smoke drifted like thin, gray wisps of fog
above the tortured earth  and the shattered fences  and the peach trees that
had been whittled into  toothpicks by the cannon fire. For a moment silence,
if not peace, fell upon those few square miles of  ground where just a while
before  men had screamed and  torn at one another in the frenzy of  old hate
and  had  contended  in  an  ancient striving  and then  had  fallen  apart,
exhausted.
     For  endless time, it  seemed, there had been belching thunder  rolling
from horizon to horizon and the gouted earth that had spouted in the sky and
the  screams of  horses and the hoarse  bellowing  of men; the whistling  of
metal and the thud when the whistle ended; the flash of searing fire and the
brightness of  the steel; the bravery of the  colors snapping in the  battle
wind.
     Then it all had ended and there was a silence.
     But silence was  an  alien note that  held no  right upon this field or
day,  and it was broken by the whimper and  the pain, the cry for water, and
the  prayer  for death- the  crying  and the calling and the whimpering that
would go on for hours beneath the summer sun.  Later the hupled shapes would
grow quiet and still and  there  would  be an odor that would sicken all who
passed, and the graves would be shallow graves.
     There was wheat  that  never  would be harvested,  trees that would not
bloom when spring came round again, and  on the slope of land that ran up to
the ridge the words unspoken and the deeds undone and the sopen bundles that
cried aloud the emptiness and the waste of death.
     There were proud names that were the prouder now, but now no  more than
names to  echo down the ages - the Iron Brigade, the 5th  New Hampshire, the
1st Minnesota, the 2nd Massachusetts, the 16th Maine.
     And there was Enoch Wallace.
     He  still held the  shattered musket  and  there were  blisters on  his
hands. His face was smudged with powder. His shoes were  caked with dust and
blood.
     He was still alive.


     Dr. Erwin Hardwicke rolled the pencil back and forth between his palms,
an irritating business. He eyed  the  man across the desk from him with some
calculation.
     "What I  can't figure out," said  Hardwicke, "is why you should come to
us."
     "Well, you're the National Academy and I thought ..."
     "And you're Intelligence."
     "Look,  Doctor,  if  it   suits  you  better,  let's  call  this  visit
unofficial. Pretend I'm a puzzled citizen who dropped in to see if you could
help."
     "It's not that I wouldn't like to help, but  I don't see how I can. The
whole thing is so hazy and so hypothetical."
     "Damn it, man," Claude Lewis said, "you can't deny the proof-the little
that I have."
     "All  right, then," said Hardwicke, "let's  start  over once  again and
take it piece by piece. You say you have this man ..."
     "His name," said Lewis,  "is Enoch Wallace.  Chronologically, he is one
hundred and twenty-four years  old. He was born on a farm a  few miles  from
the town of Millville in Wisconsin, April 22, 1840, and he is the only child
of Jedediah and Amanda Wallace. He enlisted among the first of them when Abe
Lincoln  called for volunteers. He was  with  the  Iron Brigade,  which  was
virtually wiped out at Gettysburg  in 1863.  But Wallace somehow  managed to
get  transferred to another fighting outfit and  fought down across Virginia
under Grant. He was in on the end of it at Appomattox ...
     "You've run a check on him."
     "I've  looked up his  records. The record of  enlistment  at the  State
Capitol in Madison. The rest of it, including discharge here in Washington."
     "You say he looks like thirty."
     "Not a day beyond it. Maybe even less than that."
     "But you haven't talked with him."
     Lewis shookhis head.
     "He may not be the man. If you had fingerprints ...
     "At  the  time of the Civil  War,"  said  Lewis, "they'd not thought of
fingerprints."
     "The  last  of the  veterans of the  Civil  War," said Hardwicke, "died
several years  ago. A Confederate drummer  boy,  I think. There must be some
mistake."
     Lewis shook his head. "I thought so myself, when I was assigned to it."
     "How come  you  were assigned? How  does Intelligence get involved in a
deal like this?"
     "I'll admit," said Lewis, "that it's a bit  unusual. But there  were so
many implications ..."
     "Immortality, you mean."
     "It crossed our mind, perhaps. The chance of it. But only incidentally.
There were other  considerations.  It  was a  strange setup that  bore  some
looking into."
     "But Intelligence ..."
     Lewis  grinned.  "You  are  thinking,  why  not  a  scientific  outfit?
Logically, I  suppose it should have been. But one of our men  ran  afoul of
it.  He was  on  vacation.  Had  relatives back  in Wisconsin.  Not  in that
particular  area, but  some  thirty miles away. He heard  a  rumor-just  the
vaguest rumor, almost a casual mention. So he nosed around  a bit. He didn't
find  out too much but  enough to make him think there might be something to
it."
     "That's the  thing that puzzles me," said Hardwicke. "How could  a  man
live for one hundred and twenty-four years in  one locality without becoming
a  celebrity  that the world  would hear  about?  Can  you imagine  what the
newspapers could do with a thing like this?"
     "I shuper," Lewis said, "when I think about it."
     "You haven't told me how."
     "This," said Lewis,  "is a bit hard to explain. You'd  have to know the
country  and  the  people  in it.  The southwestern corner  of Wisconsin  is
bounded by  two  rivers, the Mississippi  on the west,  the Wisconsin on the
north. Away  from the rivers  there is flat, broad prairie land,  rich land,
with prosperous farms and towns. But the land that runs down to the river is
rough  and rugged; high hills  and bluffs  and deep ravines and  cliffs, and
there  are certain areas forming bays or pockets that are isolated. They are
served by  inadequate  roads and  the  small, rough farms are inhabited by a
people who are  closer, perhaps, to the pioneer days of a hundred  years ago
than they  are to the twentieth  century.  They have  cars,  of course,  and
radios, and  someday soon, perhaps, even  television. But in spirit they are
conservative and  clannish-not  all the people, of course,  not even many of
them, but these little isolated neighborhoods.
     "At one time there were a lot of farms in  these isolated  pockets, but
today  a man can hardly make a living  on  a farm of  that sort.  Slowly the
people  are being squeezed out of the areas by economic  circumstances. They
sell their farms for whatever they can get for them and move somewhere else,
to the cities mostly, where they can make a living."
     Hardwicke noped. "And the  ones that are left, of course, are the  most
conservative and clannish."
     "Right. Most of  the land now  is held by absentee  owners who make  no
pretense of farming it. They may run a few head of cattle on it, but that is
all. It's not too bad as a tax write-off for someone who needs that  sort of
thing. And in the land-bank days a lot of the land was put into the bank."
     "You're  trying  to  tell me  these backwoods people-is that what you'd
call them?-engaged in a conspiracy of silence."
     "Perhaps not anything," said Lewis, "as formal or elaborate as that. It
is just their way of doing  things, a holdover from  the old,  stout pioneer
philosophy.  They  minded   their  own  business.  They  didn't  want  folks
interfering with them and they interfered with no  one else. If a man wanted
to live  to be a thousand, it might be a thing of wonder, but it was his own
damned business. And if he wanted  to live alone  and be  let alone while he
was  doing  it, that was his business,  too. They might talk  about it among
themselves, but to  no one else.  They'd resent it if some outsider tried to
talk about it.
     "After a  time, I suppose,  they came to accept the fact  that  Wallace
kept on being young  while they were growing old. The wonder wore off it and
they probably didn't talk  about it a great deal, even among themselves. New
generations  accepted  it  because  their  elders  saw  in  it  nothing  too
unusual-and anyhow no  one saw much of Wallace because he  kept strictly  to
himself.
     "And in the nearby areas the thing, when it was thought of at all, grew
to be just a sort  of  legend- another crazy  tale that wasn't worth looking
into. Maybe just a joke among those  folks down Dark Hollow way.  A Rip  Van
Winkle sort of business that probably didn't have a word of  truth in  it. A
man might look ridiculous if he went prying into it."
     "But your man looked into it."
     "Yes. Don't ask me why."
     "Yet he wasn't assigned to follow up the job."
     "He was needed somewhere else. And besides he was known back there."
     "And you?"
     "It took two years of work."
     "But now you know the story."
     "Not all of it. There  are more questions now than there  were to start
with."
     "You've seen this man."
     "Many  times," said Lewis. "But I've  never  talked with  him. I  don't
think he's ever seen me. He takes a walk each day before  he goes to get the
mail.  He never  moves  off the place,  you see. The  mailman brings out the
little stuff he  needs.  A bag of  flour, a  pound of  bacon,  a dozen eggs,
cigars, and sometimes liquor."
     "But that must be against the postal regulations."
     "Of course it is. But mailmen have been doing it for years. It  doesn't
hurt a  thing until someone  screams about it.  And no  one's going  to. The
mailmen probably are the only friends he has ever had."
     "I take it this Wallace doesn't do much farming."
     "None at all.  He  has a  little vegetable garden,  but  that is all he
does. The place has gone back pretty much to wilderness."
     "But he has to live. He must get money somewhere."
     "He does,"  said Lewis. "Every five or ten years  or so he ships off  a
fistful of gems to an outfit in New York."
     "Legal?"
     "If you mean, is it hot, I don't think so. If someone wanted to  make a
case of  it, I suppose there  are  illegalities. Not to start  with, when he
first  started  sending  them, back in the  old days.  But laws change and I
suspect both he and the buyer are in defiance of any number of them."
     "And you don't mind?"
     "I checked  on this firm," said Lewis, "and they were  rather  nervous.
For one thing, they'd been stealing Wallace blind.  I told them  to keep  on
buying.  I told them  that if  anyone came around to  check,  to  refer them
straight  to me. I  told  them to keep  their  mouths  shut  and not  change
anything."
     "You don't want anyone to scare him off," said Hardwicke.
     "You're damned right, I don't. I want the mailman to keep on  acting as
a delivery  boy  and the  New  York  firm  to keep  on  buying gems.  I want
everything  to stay just  the  way it is.  And before you ask  me  where the
stones come from, I'll tell you I don't know."
     "He maybe has a mine."
     "That would be quite a mine. Diamonds and rubies and emeralds, all  out
of the same mine."
     "I would suspect, even  at the prices  that he gets from them, he picks
up a fair income."
     Lewis noped. "Apparently he only sends a  shipment in when he runs  out
of cash. He wouldn't need  too much. He  lives rather simply, to judge  from
the  grub he  buys. But  he subscribes to a  lot  of daily papers  and  news
magazines and to dozens of scientific journals. He buys a lot of books."
     "Technical books?"
     "Some  of them, of course, but mostly keeping up with new developments.
Physics and chemistry and biology-all that sort of stuff."
     "But I don't ..."
     "Of course you don't. Neither  do I. He's no  scientist. Or at least he
has  no formal  education in the sciences. Back  in the days when he went to
school there  wasn't  much  of  it-not  in the sense  of  today's scientific
education. And whatever he learned then would be fairly worthless now in any
event.  He  went  through  grade   school-one  of   those  one-room  country
schools-and spent one winter at what was called an academy that operated for
a year or  two  down in Millville village. In  case you don't know, that was
considerably better than par back in the 1850s. He was, apparently, a fairly
bright young man."
     Hardwicke  shook his head. "It sounds incredible. You've checked on all
of this?"
     "As well as  I could.  I had to  go at it gingerly.  I wanted no one to
catch on.  And one  thing I forgot-he does a lot of  writing.  He buys these
big, bound record books, in lots of a dozen at the time. He buys  ink by the
pint."
     Hardwicke got up from his desk and paced up and down the room.
     "Lewis,"  he said,  "if you hadn't shown  me your credentials  and if I
hadn't checked on them, I'd figure all of this to be a very tasteless joke."
     He went back and  sat  down again. He picked up the pencil  and started
rolling it between his palms once more.
     "You've been on the case two years," he said. "You have no ideas?"
     "Not a one," said Lewis. "I'm entirely baffled. That is why I'm here."
     "Tell me more of his history. After the war, that is."
     "His mother died," said Lewis,  "while he was away.  His father and the
neighbors buried her  right there on  the  farm. That was the  way a  lot of
people did it then.  Young  Wallace got a furlough, but not  in time to  get
home for the funeral. There wasn't much embalming done in those days and the
traveling  was slow. Then he went back to the war. So far as I can  find, it
was his only furlough. The old man lived alone and worked the farm, batching
it and getting  along  all right. From  what I  can  pick up,  he was a good
farmer, an exceptionally good farmer for his day. He subscribed to some farm
journals  and was progressive in his ideas. He paid attention to such things
as  crop rotation and the prevention  of erosion. The farm wasn't much of  a
farm by modern standards,  but it made him a living  and a  little extra  he
managed to lay by.
     "Then Enoch came home from the war and  they farmed the place  together
for a year  or  so. The  old man  bought  a  mower-one of those  horse-drawn
contraptions with a sickle bar to cut hay  or grain. It was the  progressive
thing to do. It beat a scythe all hollow.
     "Then one afternoon the old man went out to mow a hayfield. The  horses
ran away. Something must have scared them. Enoch's father was thrown off the
seat  and forward, in front of the  sickle bar. It was not a pretty  way  to
die."
     Hardwicke made a grimace of distaste. "Horrible," he said.
     "Enoch went out and gathered  up his  father and got  the  body to  the
house. Then  he took a  gun and went  hunting  for the horses. He found them
down in  the  corner of  the pasture and he shot the two of them and he left
them.  I mean  exactly that.  For  years  their skeletons lay there  in  the
pasture,  where  he'd  killed  them,  still hitched to  the  mower until the
harness rotted.
     "Then he went back to the house  and laid his father out. He washed him
and he dressed him in the good black suit and laid him on a board, then went
out  to the  barn and  carpentered a coffin. And after that, he dug a  grave
beside his mother's grave. He finished  it  by lantern light, then went back
to the house and sat  up with his father. When morning came, he went to tell
the nearest neighbor and that neighbor  notified the others and someone went
to get a  preacher. Late in the  afternoon they  had  the funeral, and Enoch
went back to the house. He has  lived there ever since, but  he never farmed
the land. Except the garden, that is."
     "You told me these people  wouldn't talk to strangers. You seem to have
learned a lot."
     "It took two years to do it. I infiltrated them. I bought a beat-up car
and drifted into Millville and I let it out that I was a ginseng hunter."
     "A what?"
     "A ginseng hunter. Ginseng is a plant."
     "Yes, I know. But there's been no market for it for years."
     "A small market and an occasional one. Exporters will take  on  some of
it.  But I hunted other medicinal plants as  well and pretended an extensive
knowledge  of them and their use.  'Pretended' isn't  actually  the  word; I
boned up plenty on them."
     "The  kind  of   simple  soul,"  said  Hardwicke,  "those  folks  could
understand. A sort  of cultural throwback. And inoffensive, too. Perhaps not
quite right in the head."
     Lewis noped. "It  worked even better  than I thought.  I just  wandered
around and  people talked to me.  I even found some ginseng.  There was  one
family in particular-the Fisher family. They live down  in the river bottoms
below the Wallace farm, which sits on  the ridge  above  the bluffs. They've
lived there almost as long  as the  Wallace family,  but  a different stripe
entirely.  The  Fishers  are a  coon-hunting, catfishing,  moonshine-cooking
tribe.  They found  a kindred  spirit  in  me. I was  just  as shiftless and
no-account  as  they  were. I helped them with their moonshine,  both in the
making and the drinking and once in a while the pepling. I went fishing with
them and hunting with them and I sat around and talked and they showed me  a
place or two where I might find some ginseng-'sang' is what they  call it. I
imagine a social scientist might find a  gold mine in the Fishers.  There is
one girl-a deaf-mute, but a pretty thing, and she can charm off warts ..."
     "I recognize the  type," said Hardwicke.  "I was born and raised in the
southern mountains."
     "They were the ones who told me about the team and mower. So one day  I
went up in that corner of  the Wallace pasture and did some digging. I found
a horse's skull and some other bones."
     "But no way of knowing if it was one of the Wallace horses."
     "Perhaps not," said Lewis. "But I found part of the  mower as well. Not
much left of it, but enough to identify."
     "Let's  get  back  to the  history,"  suggested  Hardwicke. "After  the
father's death, Enoch stayed on at the farm. He never left it?"
     Lewis  shook his head. "He lives in  the same house. Not a thing's been
changed. And the house apparently has aged no more than the man."
     "You've been in the house?"
     "Not in it. At it. I will tell you how it was."

     He had an  hour. He knew he had an hour, for he had timed Enoch Wallace
during the last ten days. And  from the time he left the  house until he got
back with his mail, it had never been less than an  hour. Sometimes a little
longer, when the mailman might be late, or they got to talking. But an hour,
Lewis told himself, was all that he could count on.
     Wallace had disappeared  down the slope of ridge, heading for the point
of rocks that towered above the bluff face, with the Wisconsin River running
there below. He would climb the rocks and stand there, with the rifle tucked
beneath his arm, to gaze across  the wilderness of the river valley. Then he
would  go  back down the rocks again and  trudge  along  the wooded path  to
where, in proper season,  the  pink  lady's-slippers grew, and from there up
the hill again to the spring that  gushed out of the hillside just below the
ancient field that had lain fallow for a century or more, and then along the
slope until he hit the almost overgrown road and so down to the mailbox.
     In the ten days that Lewis had watched him, his route had never varied.
It was likely, Lewis told himself, that it had not varied through the years.
Wallace did not hurry. He walked as if he had all the time there was. And he
stopped along the way to renew acquaintances with old friends of his-a tree,
a  squirrel, a flower. He was a rugged man and there  still was much of  the
soldier in  him-old  tricks  and  habits  left  from  the  bitter  years  of
campaigning under many  leaders. He walked with his head  held high and  his
shoulders back and he moved with the  easy stride of one who had  known hard
marches.
     Lewis  came out of  the tangled  mass  of trees that  once  had been an
orchard and in which a few  trees, twisted  and  gnarled and gray with  age,
still bore their pitiful and bitter crop of apples.
     He stopped at the edge of the copse and stood for  a moment to stare up
at the house on the ridge above, and  for a single  instant it seemed to him
the house stood in a special light, as  if a rare and more distilled essence
of the sun had crossed the gulf of space to shine upon this house and to set
it apart from all other houses in the world. Bathed in that light, the house
was  somehow unearthly,  as  if, indeed,  it might  be set apart  as a  very
special thing. And then  the light, if it ever had been there, was  gone and
the house shared the common sunlight of the fields and woods.
     Lewis shook his head  and told himself that it had been foolishness, or
perhaps a trick of seeing. For there was  no such thing  as special sunlight
and the house was no more than a house, although wondrously preserved.
     It was the  kind of house one  did not  see too often in these days. It
was rectangular, long  and  narrow and high,  with old-fashioned gingerbread
along the eaves and  gables. It  had a certain gauntness that had nothing to
do with age; it had been gaunt the day it had been built-gaunt and plain and
strong, like the  people that it sheltered.  But gaunt  as it  might be,  it
stood prim and neat, with no  peeling paint, with no sign of weathering, and
no hint of decay.
     Against one end of it was  a smaller building, no  more than a shed, as
if it were an alien structure that  had been carted in from some other place
and shoved against its end, covering the side door of the house. Perhaps the
door,  thought  Lewis, that  led  into the kitchen. The shed undoubtedly had
been used as a  place to hang  outdoor clothing and  to leave  overshoes and
boots, with a bench for milk cans and buckets, and perhaps a basket in which
to gather eggs. From the top of it extended some three feet of stovepipe.
     Lewis went up to the house and around  the shed and there, in the  side
of it,  was a door ajar. He stepped up on the stoop and pushed the door wide
open and stared in amazement at the room.
     For it was not a simple shed. It apparently was the place where Wallace
lived.
     The stove  from which the stovepipe projected stood in one  corner,  an
ancient cookstove,  smaller than the old-fashioned kitchen range. Sitting on
its  top was a coffeepot, a frying  pan, and a griple.  Hung from hooks on a
board  behind it  were other cooking implements. Opposite  the stove, shoved
against the wall,  was a three-quarter-size four-poster bed,  covered with a
lumpy quilt,  quilted  in  one  of  the ornate patterns  of  many pieces  of
many-colored  cloth,  such as had been the delight  of ladies  of  a century
before. In another corner was a table and a chair, and above the table, hung
against the wall, a small open  cupboard in which  were stacked some dishes.
On the table  stood a kerosene lantern, battered from much  usage, but  with
its chimney clean, as if it had been washed and polished as recently as this
morning.
     There was no door into the house, no sign there  had ever been  a door.
The clapboard of the house's outer wall ran unbroken to form the fourth wall
of the shed.
     This was incredible,  Lewis told  himself-that there should be no door,
that Wallace should live here, in this shed, when there was a  house to live
in.  As  if there were some reason he should not  occupy the house, and  yet
must stay close by it.  Or perhaps  that he might be living out a penance of
some sort, living here in this shed as a medieval hermit might have lived in
a woodland hut or in a desert cave.
     He stood in  the center of the shed  and looked around him, hoping that
he might find some clue to this unusual circumstance. But there was nothing,
beyond  the  bare,  hard  fact  of living,  the very  basic  necessities  of
living-the stove to cook his food and  heat the place, the bed to sleep  on,
the table to eat on, and the lantern  for its light. Not even so much  as an
extra hat (although, come to  think of it, Wallace never wore  a hat)  or an
extra coat.
     No sign of magazines or  papers, and Wallace  never came home from  the
mailbox empty-handed. He  subscribed to  the New York Times, the Wall Street
Journal, the Christian Science Monitor,  and the Washington Star, as well as
many scientific and technical journals. But there was no sign of  them here,
nor of the many books he bought. No sign, either, of the bound record books.
Nothing at all on which a man could write.
     Perhaps, Lewis told himself,  this  shed, for some baffling reason, was
no more than a show place, a place staged most  carefully to  make one think
that this  was where Wallace  lived. Perhaps,  after  all,  he lived  in the
house. Although,  if that  were the  case, why  all  this  effort,  not  too
successful, to make one think he didn't?
     Lewis turned to the door and walked out of the shed. He went around the
house until he reached the porch that led up to the front door.  At the foot
of the steps, he stopped and looked around. The place was quiet. The sun was
midmorning-high and the day was warming up and this sheltered corner  of the
earth stood relaxed and hushed, waiting for the heat.
     He looked at his watch and he had forty minutes left, so he went up the
steps and across the porch until he came to the door. Reaching out his hand,
he grasped the knob  and turned-except  he  didn't turn  it; the knob stayed
exactly where  it  was  and his clenched fingers went half around  it in the
motion of a turn.
     Puzzled, he tried again and still he didn't turn the knob. It was as if
the knob was covered  with some  hard, slick coating, like a coat of brittle
ice, on which the fingers slipped without exerting any pressure on the knob.
He  bent  his head close to  the knob and tried  to see  if  there  were any
evidence of coating,  and there was  no evidence. The knob  looked perfectly
all right-too  all right, perhaps. For it was clean, as if someone had wiped
and polished it. There was no dust upon it, and no weather specks.
     He tried a thumbnail on  it, and the thumbnail slipped but left no mark
behind it. He ran his palm over the outer surface of the  door  and the wood
was slick. The rubbing of  the palm set up  no friction. The palm slid along
the wood as if the palm were greased, but there was no sign of grease. There
was no indication of anything to account for the slickness of the door.
     Lewis  moved from  the door to the clapboard and the clapboard also was
slick. He tried palm and thumbnail on it and the answer was the same.  There
was  something covering this house which made it slick and  smooth-so smooth
that dust could not cling upon its surface nor could weather stain it.
     He moved  along  the  porch until he  came  to a window, and now, as he
stood  facing the window, he realized  something he had not  noticed before,
something  that helped make  the house seem gaunter than  it really was. The
windows were black. There were no  curtains, no drapes, no shades; they were
simply  black rectangles, like empty  eyes staring out of the  bare skull of
the house.
     He moved  closer  to the window and  put his face up to it, shading the
sides of his face, next to the eyes, with his upheld hands to shield out the
sunlight.  But even  so,  he could not see into the room  beyond. He stared,
instead, into a pool  of blackness, and the blackness, curiously enough, had
no reflective qualities. He could not see himself reflected in the glass. He
could see  nothing but the blackness, as if the light hit the window and was
absorbed  by it, sucked in  and held by it.  There was no  bouncing back  of
light once it had hit that window.
     He left  the porch and went slowly around the house, examining it as he
went. The  windows were  all blank,  black pools that sucked in the captured
light, and all the exterior was slick and hard.
     He pounded the clapboard with his fist, and it was like the pounding of
a rock. He examined the stone walls of the basement where they were exposed,
and  the walls  were smooth  and slick.  There were mortar gaps between  the
stones and in the stones themselves  one could see uneven  surfaces, but the
hand rubbed across the wall could detect no roughness.
     An invisible something had been laid over  the roughness of the  stone,
just enough of it to fill in the pits and uneven surfaces. But one could not
detect it. It was almost as if it had no substance.
     Straightening up from his  examination of the wall, Lewis looked at his
watch. There were only ten minutes left. He must be getting on.
     He walked down the  hill toward the tangle of  old orchard. At its edge
he stopped and looked back,  and now the  house was  different.  It  was  no
longer just a structure. It wore a personality, a mocking, leering look, and
there was a malevolent chuckle bubbling inside of it, ready to break out.
     Lewis ducked  into the  orchard and worked his way in among  the trees.
There was no path and  beneath the trees the grass  and weeds  grew tall. He
ducked the drooping branches and walked around a tree that had been uprooted
in some windstorm of many years before.
     He  reached  up  as he  went along, picking an apple  here  and  there,
scrubby things and sour, taking a single bite out of each  one of them, then
throwing it away, for there was none of them that was fit to eat, as if they
might have taken from the neglected soil a certain basic bitterness.
     At  the far  side of the orchard he found the fence and the graves that
it enclosed. Here  the weeds and grass were not so high and the fence showed
signs  of  repair made  rather  recently,  and at  the foot  of  each grave,
opposite the three crude native limestone headstones, was a peony bush, each
a great straggling mass of plants that had grown, undisciplined, for years.
     Standing before the weathered picketing,  he  knew that he had stumbled
on the Wallace family burial plot.
     But there should have been only the two stones. What about the third?
     He moved  around the fence to the sagging  gate and went into the plot.
Standing at the foot  of  the graves, he read the legends on the stones. The
carving was  angular and  rough,  giving evidence of having been executed by
unaccustomed  hands.  There  were  no pious phrases,  no lines  of verse, no
carvings of angels or of lambs or of other symbolic figures such as had been
customary in the 1 860s. There were just the names and dates.
     On the first stone: Amanda Wallace 1821-1863
     And on the second stone: Jedediah Wallace 1816-1866
     And on the third stone-

     "Give me that pencil, please," said Lewis.
     Hardwicke quit rolling it between his palms and banded it across.
     "Paper, too?" he asked.
     "If you please," said Lewis.
     He bent above the desk and drew rapidly.
     "Here," he said, handing back the paper.
     Hardwicke wrinkled his brow.
     "But it makes no sense," he said. "Except for that figure underneath."
     "The  figure  eight,  lying on  its side. Yes, I  know. The symbol  for
infinity."
     "But the rest of it?"
     "I don't know," said Lewis. "it is the  inscription on the tombstone. I
copied it ..."
     "And you know it now by heart."
     "I should. I've studied it enough."
     "I've  never  seen  anything like it in my  life," said Hardwicke. "Not
that I'm an authority. I really know little at all in this field."
     "You can put your mind at rest. It's nothing that anyone knows anything
about.  It bears no  resemblance, not even  the remotest, to any language or
any known inscription. I checked with men who  know. Not one, but a dozen of
them. I told them I'd found it on a rocky cliff. I am sure that most of them
think  I am a crackpot. One of those people who are trying to prove that the
Romans  or the  Phoenicians  or  the  Irish  or  whatnot  had  pre-Colombian
settlements in America."
     Hardwicke put down the sheet of paper.
     "I  can  see what  you  mean,"  he  said, "when you say  you have  more
questions  now than when you started. Not only  the question of a young  man
more than  a century old, but likewise  the  matter of  the slickness of the
house  and the third gravestone with the undecipherable inscription. You say
you've never talked with Wallace?"
     "No  one talks to him. Except  the  mailman.  He goes out  on his daily
walks and he packs this gun."
     "People are afraid to talk with him?"
     "Because of the gun, you mean."
     "Well, yes, I  suppose that was in the back  of my mind. I wondered why
he carried it."
     Lewis shook his  head. "I don't know.  I've tried to tie it in, to find
some reason he always has it with him. He has never  fired the rifle  so far
as I can  find. But I  don't think the rifle is the reason no one talks with
him. He's an anachronism, something  living  from another age. No one  fears
him, I am sure of that. He's been around  too long for  anyone  to fear him.
Too familiar. He's a fixture of the land, like a tree or boulder. And yet no
one feels quite comfortable with  him, either. I would  imagine that most of
them, if they should come face to  face with him, would feel  uncomfortable.
For he's something they are not-something greater than they are  and  at the
same time a good deal less. As if he were a man who had walked away from his
own humanity. I think  that, secretly, many of  his neighbors may  be  a bit
ashamed  of  him,  shamed   because   he  has,  somehow,  perhaps   ignobly,
side-stepped growing old, one of the penalties, but perhaps, as well, one of
the rights of all humankind. And perhaps this secret shame may contribute in
some part to their unwillingness to talk about him."
     "You spent a good deal of time watching him?"
     "There was a time I did. But now I have  a crew. They  watch on regular
shifts. We  have  a dozen spots  we  watch from, and we  keep  shifting them
around. There isn't an hour, day in, day out,  that the Wallace house  isn't
under observation."
     "This business really has you people bugged."
     "I think with reason," Lewis said. "There is still one other thing."
     He bent  over  and picked  up the brief case  he  had placed beside his
chair. Unsnapping it, he  took out a sheaf of photographs and handed them to
Hardwicke.
     "What  do  you  make of  these?" he  asked. Hardwicke  picked  them up.
Supenly he froze.  The  color drained out  of his  face. His hands began  to
tremble  and he  laid the pictures carefully on the  desk.  He had looked at
only the top one; not any of the others.
     Lewis saw the question in his face.
     "In the grave," he said. "The one beneath the headstone  with the funny
writing."

     The message machine  whistled shrilly, and  Enoch Wallace put away  the
book in which he had been writing and got up from his desk. He walked across
the room to the whistling machine. He punched a button and shoved a  key and
the whistling stopped.
     The machine built up its  hum  and the  message began  to form  on  the
plate,  faint at first and then becoming darker  until it stood out clearly.
It read:
     NO. 406301 TO STATION 18327. TRAVELER AT 16097.38. NATIVE THUBAN VI. NO
BAGGAGE.  NO.  3  LIQUID  TANK.  SOLUTION  27. DEPART FOR STATION  12892  AT
16439.16.
     CONFIRM.
     Enoch glanced up at the great galactic chronometer hanging on the wall.
There was almost three hours to go.
     He touched  a button,  and  a thin  sheet of metal  bearing the message
protruded from the side of the machine. Beneath it the duplicate  fed itself
into the record  file. The machine chuckled and the message plate was  clear
once more and waiting.
     Enoch pulled out the  metal plate, threaded the holes in it through the
double  filing spindle  and then  dropped  his  fingers to the keyboard  and
typed: NO. 406301 RECEIVED. CONFIRM MOMENTARILY. The message came into being
on the plate and he left it there.
     Thuban VI?  Had there been, he wondered, one of them before? As soon as
he got the chores done, he would go to the filing cabinet and check.
     It  was  a  liquid  tank case  and  those, as  a  rule,  were the  most
uninteresting  of  all.   They  usually  were  hard  ones  to  strike  up  a
conversation  with, because too  often  their  concept of  language was  too
difficult to handle. And as often, too, their very thinking processes proved
too divergent to provide much common ground for communication.
     Although, he  recalled, that was not always true.  There  had been that
tank traveler several years ago, from somewhere in Hydra (or had it been the
Hyades?), he'd sat up  the whole night with and almost failed of sending off
on  time, yarning through the hours, their communication (you couldn't  call
it words) tumbling over one another as they packed into the little time they
had a lot of fellowship and, perhaps, some brotherhood.
     He, or she,  or  it-they'd  never got around to that- had not come back
again. And that was the  way it was,  thought  Enoch; very few came back. By
far the greater part of them were just passing through.
     But he had he, or she,  or it (whichever it might be) down in black and
white, as he  had  all of  them,  every single blessed  one of them, down in
black  and  white.  It had  taken  him, he  remembered,  almost  the  entire
following day,  crouched  above his desk, to get it  written down;  all  the
stories he'd  been  told,  all  the glimpses  he  had  caught  of a  far and
beautiful  and tantalizing land (tantalizing because there was so much of it
he  could not understand), all  the warmth  and comradeship that  had flowed
between himself and this  misshapen, twisted, ugly living being from another
world. And  any  time he wished, any day he wished, he could  take down  the
journal  from the  row  of journals and relive that night again. Although he
never had. It  was strange, he thought,  how there was never  time, or never
seemed  to  be the  time, to  thumb through and  reread in  part  what  he'd
recorded through the years.
     He turned from the message machine and rolled a No. 3 liquid  tank into
place  beneath the  materializer, positioning it exactly and locking  it  in
place. Then he pulled out the retracting hose and thumbed the  selector over
to No. 27. He filled the tank and let the hose slide back into the wall.
     Back at the machine, he cleared the plate and sent off his confirmation
that  all  was  ready  for  the  traveler  from   Thuban,  got  back  double
confirmation from the other end, then threw the machine to neutral, ready to
receive again.
     He went from the machine to the filing cabinet that stood  next to  his
desk and pulled out a drawer jammed with filing cards. He looked and  Thuban
VI  was there,  keyed to  August 22, 1931.  He walked across the room to the
wall filled with books and rows of magazines and journals, filled from floor
to ceiling, and found the record book he wanted. Carrying it, he walked back
to his desk.
     August  22, 1931, he found, when he  located the entry, had been one of
his lighter days. There had been one  traveler only, the one from Thuban VI.
And  although the  entry  for the day  filled almost  a page  in his  small,
crabbed writing, he had devoted no more than one paragraph to the visitor.
     Came today [it read] a  blob from Thuban VI.  There is  no other way in
which  one  might describe  it. It is simply a mass of matter, presumably of
flesh, and this  mass  seems to  go through some sort of rhythmic change  in
shape, for periodically it is globular, then begins  to flatten out until it
lies  in  the bottom of the tank, somewhat like a pancake. Then it begins to
contract and  to pull in upon itself, until finally it is a ball again. This
change is rather slow and definitely rhythmic, but only in the sense that it
follows  the  same pattern. It seems to have  no  relation to time.  I tried
timing  it and could detect no time pattern. The  shortest period needed  to
complete the cycle was seven  minutes and the  longest was eighteen. Perhaps
over a longer period one might be able to detect a time rhythm, but I didn't
have the time. The semantic translator did not work with it, but it did emit
for me a series of  sharp clicks, as if it might be clicking claws together,
although it  had no claws  that I could see.  When I looked  this up  in the
pasimology manual I learned that what  it was trying to say was that it  was
all right, that it needed no attention, and please leave it  alone.  Which I
did thereafter.
     And at the end of the paragraph, jammed into  the little space that had
been left, was the notation: See Oct. 16, 1931.
     He turned the pages until he came  to  October 16 and that had been one
of the days, he saw, that Ulysses had arrived to inspect the station.
     His name, of course, was  not Ulysses. As  a matter of fact,  he had no
name at  all. Among his  people there was no need of names;  there was other
identifying terminology which  was  far more expressive than mere names. But
this terminology, even the very concept of it, was such that it could not be
grasped, much less put to use, by human beings.
     "I shall call you Ulysses," Enoch recalled telling  him, the first time
they had met. "I need to call you something."
     "It is agreeable," said the then strange being (but no longer strange).
"Might one ask why the name Ulysses?"
     "Because it is the name of a great man of my race."
     "I  am  glad you  chose  it," said  the newly christened being.  "To my
hearing  it has a dignified and  noble sound and, between the  two of us,  I
shall be  glad to bear  it.  And I  shall call you Enoch, for the  two of us
shall work together for many of your years."
     And it had been many years, thought Enoch, with the record book open to
that October  entry of  more  than thirty  years  ago. Years  that had  been
satisfying and enriching in a  way that one could not have imagined until it
had all been laid out before him.
     And it would go on, he  thought,  much  longer than it already had gone
on-for many centuries more, for a thousand years, perhaps. And at the end of
that thousand years, what would he know then?
     Although,  perhaps, he thought, the  knowing was not the most important
part of it.
     And none of it, he knew, might come to pass, for there was interference
now. There were watchers, or at least a watcher, and before too long whoever
it might  be  might start  closing  in. What he'd  do or  how  he'd meet the
threat,  he  had no idea until that moment  came. It was something  that had
been almost bound to happen. It was something he had been  prepared to  have
happen  all these years. There  was  some reason to wonder, he knew, that it
had not happened sooner.
     He had told Ulysses of the danger of it that first day they'd met. He'd
been sitting on the steps that led up to the porch,  and thinking of it now,
he could remember it as clearly as if it had been only yesterday.

     He was sitting on the steps and  it was late afternoon. He was watching
the great white thunderheads that were piling up across the river beyond the
Iowa hills. The day was hot and sultry and there  was not a breath of moving
air. Out  in  the  barnyard  a half  a dozen  bedraggled  chickens scratched
listlessly, for the sake,  it  seemed, of going through  the  motions rather
than  from any hope of  finding food. The sound of  the sparrows'  wings, as
they flew between the gable of the  barn and the hedge  of  honeysuckle that
bordered the  field  beyond the road, was a  harsh,  dry  sound,  as  if the
feathers of their wings had grown stiff with heat.
     And here he sat, he thought, staring at the thunderheads when there was
work to do-corn to be plowed and  hay to  be gotten in and wheat to reap and
shock.
     For despite whatever might have happened, a man still  had  a  life  to
live, days to  be gotten through the  best that one could manage.  It  was a
lesson, he reminded himself, that he should have learned in all its fullness
in  the  last  few  years. But  war,  somehow, was  different from what  had
happened here. In war  you  knew  it and expected  it and were ready when it
happened,  but  this  was not the  war. This was  the peace  to which he had
returned.  A man had  a  right  to expect  that in the world of  peace there
really would be peace fencing out the violence and the horror.
     Now he was alone, as  he'd never been alone before. Now, if ever, could
be  a new  beginning; now, perhaps, there had  to be a  new  beginning.  But
whether it was  here, on  the homestead  acres,  or in some other  place, it
still would be a beginning of bitterness and anguish.
     He sat on the steps, with his wrists resting on his knees, and  watched
the thunderheads piling in the west. It might mean  rain  and the land could
use the rain-or it might be nothing, for above the merging river valleys the
air currents were erratic and  there was no way a man could tell where those
clouds might flow.
     He did not see the traveler  until  he turned in at the  gate. He was a
tall  and gangling one and his clothes were dusty and from the appearance of
him  he had walked a far way.  He came up the path and Enoch sat waiting for
him, watching him, but not stirring from the steps.
     "Good day, sir," Enoch finally said. "It's a hot day to be walking. Why
don't you sit a while."
     "Quite willingly,"  said  the  stranger. "But first,  I wonder, could I
have a drink of water?"
     Enoch got up to his feet. "Come along," he said. "I'll pump a fresh one
for you."
     He went down across the barnyard until he reached the pump. He unhooked
the dipper from where it hung upon  a bolt  and handed  it  to the  man.  He
grasped the handle of the pump and worked it up and down.
     "Let  it  run a while," he  said. "It takes a time for it to  get  real
cool."
     The water splashed out of the spout,  running on the boards that formed
the cover of the well. It came in spurts as Enoch worked the handle.
     "Do you think," the stranger asked, "that it is about to rain?"
     "A man can't tell," said Enoch. "We have to wait and see."
     There was something about  this traveler that  disturbed  him. Nothing,
actually, that one could put a finger on, but a certain strangeness that was
vaguely disquieting. He  watched him narrowly as he  pumped and decided that
probably  this  stranger's ears were just a bit too pointed at  the top, but
put it  down to his imagination, for when  he looked again they seemed to be
all right.
     "I think," said Enoch, "that the water should be cold by now."
     The traveler put  down the dipper and waited for it to fill. He offered
it to Enoch. Enoch shook his head.
     "You first. You need it worse than I do."
     The stranger drank greedily and with much slobbering.
     "Another one?" asked Enoch.
     "No, thank you,"  said the stranger. "But I'll catch  another dipperful
for you if you wish me to."
     Enoch pumped, and when  the dipper was full  the stranger handed  it to
him. The water was cold and Enoch, realizing for the first time  that he had
been thirsty, drank it almost to the bottom.
     He hung  the dipper back on its bolt and said to the  man,  "Now, let's
get in that sitting."
     The stranger grinned.  "I could do with  some  of  it," he  said. Enoch
pulled  a red bandanna from his  pocket and mopped  his face. "The  air gets
close," he said, "just before a rain."
     And as he mopped his face, quite supenly  he knew what it was that  had
disturbed him about  the  traveler. Despite his bedraggled  clothes and  his
dusty  shoes,  which attested  to long  walking,  despite  the heat of  this
time-before-a-rain, the stranger  was not sweating. He appeared as fresh and
cool as if he had been lying at his ease beneath a tree in springtime.
     Enoch put the bandanna back into his pocket and they walked back to the
steps and sat there, side by side.
     "You've traveled a far way," said Enoch, gently prying.
     "Very far, indeed,"  the  stranger told  him. "I'm a right  smart piece
from home."
     "And you have a far way yet to go?"
     "No,"  the stranger  said, "I believe that  I  have gotten to the place
where I am going."
     "You mean  ..."  asked  Enoch,  and left  the question hanging. "I mean
right here," said the stranger, "sitting on these steps. I have been looking
for a man and I think that man is  you. I did not know his name nor where to
look for him, but yet I knew that one day I would find him."
     "But me," Enoch said, astonished. "Why should you look for me?"
     "I was  looking  for a man of  many different parts.  One of the things
about him was that he must have looked  up at  the  stars and wondered  what
they were."
     "Yes,"  said Enoch, "that  is something I  have  done. On many  nights,
camping in the  field, I have lain in my blankets and looked  up at the sky,
looking at the stars and wondering what they were and how they'd been put up
there and, most important  of all,  why they  had been put  up there. I have
heard some say that each of them  is another sun like the sun that shines on
Earth,  but  I don't know about that. I guess  there is no one who knows too
much about them."
     "There are some," the stranger said, "who know a deal about them."
     "You, perhaps," said Enoch, mocking just a little, for the stranger did
not look like a man who'd know much of anything.
     "Yes, I," the stranger  said. "Although I do not know  as much  as many
others do."
     "I've sometimes  wondered," Enoch said, "if  the stars are  other suns,
might there not be other planets and other people, too."
     He remembered sitting around the  campfire of a  night, jawing with the
other fellows to pass  away the time.  And once he'd  mentioned this idea of
maybe other people  on other planets circling other suns and the fellows all
had jeered him and for days afterward had made fun  of him, so he  had never
mentioned it again. Not that it mattered much,  for he had no real belief in
it himself; it had never been more than campfire speculation.
     And now he'd  mentioned it again and  to an utter stranger. He wondered
why he had.
     "You believe that?" asked the stranger.
     Enoch said, "It was just an idle notion."
     "Not  so idle,"  said the stranger. "There  are other planets and there
are other people. I am one of them."
     "But you ..." cried Enoch, then was stricken into silence.
     For the stranger's face had split and began to fall away and beneath it
he caught the glimpse of another face that was not a human face.
     And even as the false human face sloughed  off that other face, a great
sheet  of lightning  went crackling  across the sky and the heavy  crash  of
thunder seemed to shake the land and from far off he heard the  rushing rain
as it charged across the hills.

     That was how it started, Enoch thought, almost a hundred years ago. The
campfire  fantasy  had  turned into fact and the  Earth  now was on galactic
charts, a  way station  for many  different peoples  traveling star to star.
Strangers once, but now there  were no strangers. There were  no such things
as strangers. In whatever  form,  with  whatever purpose,  all of  them were
people.
     He looked back  at the  entry for October 16, 1931, and  ran through it
swiftly. There, near the end of it was the sentence:
     Ulysses  says  the Thubans  from  planet VI are  perhaps  the  greatest
mathematicians in the galaxy. They  have  developed,  it seems, a numeration
system superior to any in existence, especially valuable in the handling  of
statistics.
     He  closed  the  book  and sat quietly in  the  chair, wondering if the
statisticians  of  Mizar X knew of the Thubans' work.  Perhaps they did,  he
thought, for certainly some of the math they used was unconventional.
     He  pushed  the  record book to  one side and dug into  a  desk drawer,
bringing out his chart. He spread it flat on the desk before him and puzzled
over it. If  he  could  be sure,  he thought. If  he  only  knew  the  Mizar
statistics  better.  For the last ten years  or more he had labored  at  the
chart,  checking and rechecking  all the factors against  the  Mizar system,
testing  again and again to determine whether the factors he  was using were
the ones he should be using.
     He raised a clenched fist and hammered at the desk. If he only could be
certain. If  he could only talk with someone.  But  that  had been something
that he had  shrank from  doing, for  it would be equivalent to showing  the
very nakedness of the human race.
     He still was human. Funny, he thought, that he should  stay human, that
in a century of association with these  beings from the many stars he should
have, through it all, remained a man of Earth.
     For in many ways, his ties with Earth were cut. Old Winslowe  Grant was
the only human he ever talked with now. His neighbors shunned him, and there
were  no  others,  unless  one  could count  watchers,  and those  he seldom
saw-only glimpses of them, only the places they had been.
     Only old Winslowe Grant  and Mary and the other people from the  shadow
who came occasionally to spend lonely hours with him.
     That  was all of Earth he had, old Winslowe and  the  shadow people and
the homestead acres that lay outside the house-but not the house itself, for
the house was alien now.
     He shut his eyes and remembered  how  the  house had  been in the olden
days. There had been a kitchen, in this same area where he was sitting, with
the iron cook-stove, black and monstrous, in its corner,  showing its row of
fiery  teeth along  the slit made by the grate. Pushed  against the wall had
been the table where the three of them had eaten, and  he could remember how
the table  looked, with the vinegar cruet and the glass that held the spoons
and the Lazy Susan with the mustard, horseradish, and chili sauce sitting in
a group, a sort of centerpiece in the miple of the red checkered cloth  that
the table wore.
     There had been a winter night and he  had been, it seemed, no more than
three or four. His mother was busy at the stove with supper. He was  sitting
on the  floor in  the center of  the kitchen, playing with some blocks,  and
outside he could  hear  the muffled howling of the  wind as it prowled along
the  eaves. His  father had come in from milking at the barn, and a  gust of
wind and a swirl of snow had come into the room with him. Then he'd shut the
door and the wind and snow were gone,  shut outside this house, condemned to
the outer darkness and the  wilderness of night. His father had set the pail
of milk that he had been carrying on the kitchen sink and Enoch saw that his
beard and eyebrows were coated with snow and there was frost on the whiskers
all around his mouth.
     He held that picture  still, the three  of them like  historic manikins
posed  in a cabinet in a museum-his  father with the frost upon his whiskers
and the great felt boots that came up to his knees; his mother with her face
flushed from working at the stove and  with the lace  cap upon her head, and
himself upon the floor, playing with the blocks.
     There was one other thing that he remembered, perhaps more clearly than
all the rest of it. There was a great  lamp sitting on the table, and on the
wall behind it hung  a  calendar,  and  the glow of  the  lamp fell  like  a
spotlight  upon  the  picture  on  the calendar. There was  old Santa Claus,
riding in  his  sleigh along a  woodland  track and all the little  woodland
people had turned out to watch him pass. A  great moon hung above the  trees
and there was thick snow on the ground. A  pair of rabbits sat there, gazing
soulfully at Santa, and a deer beside  the  rabbits,  with a raccoon  just a
little distance off, ringed  tail wrapped about his feet, and a squirrel and
chickadee side by side upon  an overhanging  branch. Old Santa had his  whip
raised high in greeting and his cheeks were red and his smile was  merry and
the reindeer hitched to his sled were fresh and spirited and proud.
     Through  all the years this mid-nineteenth-century Santa had ripen down
the snowy aisles of time, with his whip  uplifted in  happy greeting to  the
woodland  creatures. And the golden  lamplight  had  ripen with  him,  still
bright upon the wall and the checkered tablecloth.
     So, thought Enoch, some things do endure-the memory and the thought and
the snug warmness of a childhood kitchen on a stormy winter night.
     But  the endurance was of the  spirit and  the  mind, for nothing  else
endured.  There  was  no  kitchen  now,  nor   any  sitting  room  with  its
old-fashioned sofa and  the  rocking  chair; no back  parlor with its stuffy
elegance of brocade and  silk, no  guest bedroom on the first and no  family
bedrooms on the second floor.
     It all was gone  and  now one room remained. The second-story floor and
all partitions had been stripped away. Now the house was one great room. One
side of  it was the galactic station and the other side the living space for
the  keeper  of the station. There was a bed  over in one corner and a stove
that worked on  no principle known on Earth and  a refrigerator that was  of
alien  make.  The walls  were lined with cabinets and shelves,  stacked with
magazines and books and journals.
     There was  just one thing left from the early days, the one thing Enoch
had not allowed the alien crew that had set up the station to strip away-the
massive old fireplace of brick  and native stone  that had stood against one
wall of the sitting room. It still stood there, the one reminder of the days
of old, the one thing left of Earth, with its great, scarred oak mantel that
his father had carved out with a broadax from a massive log and had smoothed
by hand with plane and draw-shave.
     On the fireplace mantel and strewn on shelf and table were articles and
artifacts that  had no earthly origin  and some no  earthly names-the steady
accumulation through the years of the gifts from friendly travelers.
     Some of them were functional and others were to look at only, and there
were  other  things  that  were  entirely useless  because they  had  little
application to a member of the human race or  were  inoperable on Earth, and
many  others  of  the  purpose  of  which  he  had no  idea, accepting them,
embarrassed, with many stumbling thanks, from the well-meaning folks who had
brought them to him.
     And  on the  other  side of  the  room  stood  the  intricate  mass  of
machinery,  reaching  well  up into  the  open  second  story,  that  wafted
passengers through the space that stretched from star to star.
     An inn, he thought, a stopping place, a galactic crossroads.
     He rolled up the chart and put it  back into the desk. The  record book
he put  away in  its proper place among  all the other record books upon the
shelf.
     He glanced at the galactic clock upon the wall and it was time to go.
     He pushed the chair tight against the desk and shrugged into the jacket
that hung upon the chair back.  He  picked  the rifle  off the supports that
held it on the wall  and then he faced  the  wall itself and said the single
word that he had to  say. The wall slid back silently and he stepped through
it into  the little shed with its sparse furnishings. Behind him the section
of  the  wall  slid back  and there was  nothing  there  to indicate it  was
anything but a solid wall.
     Enoch stepped out of  the shed and it  was a beautiful late summer day.
In a few weeks now, he thought, there'd be the signs of autumn and a strange
chill in  the air. The first goldenrods were  blooming now and he'd noticed,
just the day before, that some of the early asters down in the ancient fence
row had started to show color.
     He went  around  the corner of the house and headed  toward  the river,
striding down the long deserted  field that was overrun with hazel brush and
occasional clumps of trees.
     This was  the Earth, he thought-a planet made for Man. But  not for Man
alone, for it  was as  well a planet for the fox and owl and weasel, for the
snake, the katydid, the fish, for all the other teeming life that filled the
air and earth and  water. And not these natives  alone, but for other beings
that  called other  earths  their  home, other  planets that far light-years
distant were basically the same as Earth. For Ulysses and the Hazers and all
the  rest of them  who  could live upon  this  planet,  if  need be, if they
wished, with no discomfort and no artificial aids.
     Our horizons are so far, he thought, and we see so little of them. Even
now, with  flaming rockets  striving  from Canaveral  to  break the  ancient
bonds, we dream so little of them.
     The ache was  there, the ache that had been growing, the  ache  to tell
all mankind those things that  he had  learned.  Not  so  much the  specific
things,  although there were  some of them that  mankind well could use, but
the general things, the unspecific central fact that  there was intelligence
throughout the universe, that  Man was not  alone, that if he only found the
way he need never be alone again.
     He went down across the field and  through the strip of woods  and came
out on the great outthrust of  rock that stood atop the cliff that faced the
river. He stood there, as he had stood on thousands of other  mornings,  and
stared out at the river, sweeping in  majestic  blue-and-silverness  through
the wooded bottom land.
     Old, ancient water,  he said,  talking silently to the river,  you have
seen it  happen-the mile-high faces of the glaciers that came and stayed and
left,  creeping  back  toward  the pole inch by stubborn inch,  carrying the
melting water  from those  very glaciers in a flood that filled  this valley
with a tide such as now is never known; the  mastodon and the sabertooth and
the  bear-sized  beaver that ranged these olden hills  and  made  the  night
clamorous  with trumpeting and screaming; the silent little bands of men who
trotted  in the woods  or clambered up the cliffs or papled on your surface,
woods-wise and water-wise,  weak in  body, strong in purpose, and persistent
in a way no other thing ever was persistent, and just a little time ago that
other  breed of  men who carried  dreams within their skulls  and cruelty in
their  hands  and the awful  sureness of an even greater  purpose  in  their
hearts. And before that, for this is ancient  country beyond what  is  often
found, the other kinds of life and the many turns of climate and the changes
that  came upon the Earth  itself. And what think  you  of it? he  asked the
river. For yours is the memory and the  perspective and the time and by  now
you should have the answers, or at least some of the answers.
     As Man might have some of the answers  had he lived for several million
years-as he  might  have the  answers  several million years from  this very
summer morning if be still should be around.
     I could help, thought Enoch. I could not  give  the answers but I could
help Man in his scramble after them. I could give  him faith and  hope and I
could give purpose such as he has not had before.
     But he knew he dare not do it.
     Far below  a hawk swung in lazy circles above the highway of the river.
The air was  so clear that Enoch imagined, if he strained his eyes a little,
he could see every feather in those outspread wings.
     There was  almost  a fairy  quality to  this place, he thought. The far
look and  the clear air and the feeling of detachment that touched almost on
greatness  of  the spirit.  As if  this were  a special place, one of  those
special places that each man must seek out for himself, and count himself as
lucky  if he ever found it, for there  were those who sought and never found
it. And worst of all, there were even those who never hunted for it.
     He stood upon the rock  and stared out across the river,  watching  the
lazy hawk  and the sweep of water and the green  carpeting of trees, and his
mind went up and out to those other places until his mind was dizzy with the
thought of it. And then he called it home.
     He turned slowly and  went back down  the  rock and moved off among the
trees, following the path he'd beaten through the years.
     He considered going down the hill a way to look in on the patch of pink
lady's-slippers,  to  see how they might be coming, to try to conjure up the
beauty that would  be his again in June, but decided  that there'd be little
point  to  it, for they were  well hipen in an isolated  place,  and nothing
could have harmed  them. There had  been a time, a  hundred years ago,  when
they had bloomed on every hill  and  he had  come trailing  home with  great
armloads of them, which his mother had put in the great  brown jug she  had,
and  for a day  or two the house had been filled with the heaviness of their
rich  perfume. But  they were  hard  to come by now. The  trampling  of  the
pastured cattle and flower-hunting humans had swept them from the hills.
     Some other day, he told himself,  some day before first frost, he would
visit them again and satisfy himself that they'd be there in the spring.
     He stopped a  while to watch a squirrel as it  frolicked in  an oak. He
squatted  down to follow  a  snail  which had  crossed  his path. He stopped
beside a massive tree and examined that pattern of the  moss  that grew upon
the trunk. And he traced the wanderings of a silent, flitting songbird as it
fluttered tree to tree.
     He followed the path out of the woods and along the edge of field until
he came to the spring that bubbled from the hillside.
     Sitting  beside  the spring was  a woman and he recognized her as  Lucy
Fisher, the deaf-mute daughter of Hank  Fisher, who lived  down in the river
bottoms.
     He stopped  and watched  her and  thought how full she was of grace and
beauty, the natural grace and beauty of a primitive and lonely creature.
     She was sitting by the spring and one hand was uplifted and she held in
it, at the  tips of  long and sensitive fingers,  something that glowed with
color. Her head was held high, with a sharp look of  alertness, and her body
was straight and slender, and it also had that almost startled look of quiet
alertness.
     Enoch moved slowly forward and stopped not  more than three feet behind
her,  and  now  he  saw  that  the thing  of  color  on her fingertips was a
butterfly, one of those large  gold and red butterflies  that  come with the
end  of  summer.  One wing of the insect stood erect  and  straight, but the
other was bent and crumpled and had lost some of  the dust that lent sparkle
to the color.
     She was, he saw, not actually holding the butterfly. It was standing on
one fingertip, the one good wing fluttering very slightly every now and then
to maintain its balance.
     But he had been mistaken, he saw, in thinking  that the second wing was
injured, for  now  he could see that somehow  it had  been  simply  bent and
distorted in some way. For now it was straightening slowly and the dust  (if
it ever had been gone) was back on it again, and it was standing up with the
other wing.
     He stepped around  the girl so that she could see  him and when she saw
him  there  was no  start  of  surprise. And that, he  knew  would  be quite
natural, for she  must be accustomed to it-someone coming up behind her  and
supenly being there.
     Her eyes were radiant  and there was, he  thought, a holy look upon her
face,  as  if  she  had experienced some  ecstasy of  the soul. And he found
himself  wondering again,  as he did each time  he saw  her, what it must be
like for her,  living in a world of  two-way silence, unable to communicate.
Perhaps not entirely  unable to  communicate, but  at least barred from that
free flow of communication which was the birthright of the human animal.
     There  had been, he knew, several attempts  to establish her in a state
school for the deaf,  but each  had been  a failure. Once she'd run away and
wandered  days before being finally found and  returned  to her home. And on
other occasions she had gone on disobedience strikes, refusing to co-operate
in any of the teaching.
     Watching her as she sat there with the butterfly, Enoch thought he knew
the reason. She  had  a  world, he  thought, a world of her very own, one to
which she was accustomed and knew how to get along in. In that world she was
no  cripple, as she  most surely would have been a cripple  if she had  been
pushed, part way, into the normal human world.
     What good to her the hand alphabet or  the reading of  the lips if they
should take from her some strange inner serenity of spirit?
     She was  a creature of  the woods  and hills, of springtime  flower and
autumn flight of birds. She knew  these things and  lived with them and was,
in some strange way, a specific part of them. She was one who dwelt apart in
an old  and lost  apartment of the natural world. She occupied a place  that
Man long since had abandoned, if, in fact, he'd ever held it.
     And there she sat, with  the wild red and gold  of the butterfly poised
upon her finger, with the  sense  of alertness and  expectancy and, perhaps,
accomplishment  shining on her face. She  was  alive,  thought  Enoch, as no
other thing he knew had ever been alive.
     The butterfly  spread its wings  and  floated off her finger  and  went
fluttering,  unconcerned,  unfrightened, up  across  the wild  grass and the
goldenrod of the field.
     She pivoted  to watch it  until it disappeared near the top of the hill
up which the old  field  climbed, then she turned to Enoch.  She smiled  and
made a fluttery motion with  her hands, like the fluttering  of  the red and
golden wings,  but there  was  something  else  in  it, as  well-a  sense of
happiness  and an expression of well-being, as if  she might be saying  that
the world was going fine.
     If, Enoch thought, I could only teach her the pasimology of my galactic
people-then we could talk, the two of us, almost as well as with the flow of
words on the human tongue. Given the time, he thought, it might  not  be too
hard, for  there was a  natural  and a logical process to  the galactic sign
language that made it almost instinctive once  one had caught the underlying
principle.
     Throughout the Earth  as well, in  the  early days; there had been sign
languages,  and  none so well developed as that one which obtained among the
aborigines of North  America, so  that  an  Amerindian, no matter  what  his
tongue, could express himself among many other tribes.
     But even so the sign language of the Indian was, at best, a crutch that
allowed a man to hobble when he couldn't run. Whereas that of the galaxy was
in itself  a  language, adaptable  to many  different  means and methods  of
expression. It had  been  developed through  millennia, with many  different
peoples making contributions, and through the  centuries it had been refined
and shaken down and polished until  today it was  a communications tool that
stood on its own merits.
     There was need  for such a tool,  for  the  galaxy was Babel. Even  the
galactic science of pasimology, polished as it might be, could  not surmount
all the obstacles, could not guarantee, in  certain cases, the basic minimum
of communication.  For  not only were there millions of tongues,  but  those
other languages as  well which  could not  operate on the principle of sound
because  the races were incapable of  sound. And even sound itself failed of
efficiency when  the race talked in ultrasonics others could not hear. There
was telepathy, of course, but for every telepath there were a thousand races
that had telepathic blocks. There were many who  got along on sign languages
alone and others  who  could  communicate  only by a written or pictographic
system, including some  who  carried chemical  blackboards  built into their
bodies.  And there was  that sightless, deaf, and  speechless  race from the
mystery stars of  the far side of the galaxy who used what was  perhaps  the
most complicated of  all the galactic  languages-a  code of  signals  routed
along their nervous systems.
     Enoch had been at  the job almost a century, and even  so,  he thought,
with the aid of  the universal  sign  language and the semantic  translator,
which was  little  more  than  a pitiful (although  complicated)  mechanical
contrivance, he still was hard put at times to know what many of them said.
     Lucy  Fisher  picked  up  a  cup that was  standing by her  side-a  cup
fashioned of a strip of folded birch bark-and dipped it  in the  spring. She
held it out to Enoch and he stepped close to take it, kneeling down to drink
from it. It was not entirely water-tight,  and water ran from it down across
his arm, wetting the cuff of shirt and jacket.
     He finished drinking and handed  back the  cup. She took it in one hand
and  reached out the other,  to  brush across his forehead  with  the tip of
gentle fingers in what she might have thought of as a benediction.
     He did not speak to her. Long ago he had ceased talking to her, sensing
that the movement of  his mouth, making  sounds she could not hear, might be
embarrassing.
     Instead he put out a  hand and laid  his  broad palm against her cheek,
holding it there for a reassuring moment  as a gesture of affection. Then he
got  to his  feet and stood staring down  at her and for a moment their eyes
looked into the other's eyes and then turned away.
     He crossed the little stream that ran down from the spring and took the
trail that  led from  the forest's edge  across the  field, heading for  the
ridge. Halfway up the slope, he turned around and saw that she  was watching
him. He held up his hand  in a gesture  of farewell and her hand gestured in
reply.
     It had  been, he  recalled, twelve years or more ago that he first  had
seen her, a little fairy person of ten years or so,  a wild thing running in
the  woods. They had become  friends, he recalled,  only after a long  time,
although he saw  her often, for she  roamed the hills and valley as  if they
were a playground for her-which, of course, they were.
     Through the  years he had watched her grow and had often met her on his
daily  walks, and  between  the two of them had grown up an understanding of
the lonely and the outcast, but understanding based on  something more  than
that-on the fact that each had  a world that  was their own and  worlds that
had given  them an  insight into something  that others seldom saw. Not that
either, Enoch thought, ever told the other, or tried to  tell the other,  of
these private worlds, but the fact of these private worlds was there, in the
consciousness  of each,  providing a firm  foundation for the  building of a
friendship.
     He  recalled the  day he'd  found  her  at  the place  where  the  pink
lady's-slippers grew, just  kneeling there and looking  at them, not picking
any of  them, and how  he'd stopped beside her  and been pleased she had not
moved to pick them, knowing that in the sight of  them, the two, he and she,
had found a joy and a beauty that was beyond possession.
     He reached the ridgetop and turned down the  grass-grown road that  led
down to the mailbox.
     And he'd not been mistaken back  there, he told himself,  no matter how
it may have seemed on second look. The  butterfly's wing  had been torn  and
crumpled and drab  from the lack of dust. It had been a  crippled  thing and
then it had been whole again and had flown away.

     Winslowe Grant was on time.
     Enoch,  as  he reached the mailbox, sighted the  dust raised by his old
jalopy as it galloped along the ridge. It had been a dusty year, he thought,
as  he stood  beside the box. There had been  little  rain and the crops had
suffered.  Although, to tell the truth, there were few  crops  on  the ridge
these days. There had been a time when  comfortable small farms had existed,
almost  cheek  by jowl, all along the road,  with the barns  all red and the
houses white. But now most of the  farms had  been abandoned and  the houses
and the barns were no longer red or white, but gray and weathered wood, with
all the paint peeled off and the ridgepoles sagging and the people gone.
     It would not  be  long before  Winslowe would arrive and Enoch  settled
down to wait. The  mailman might be stopping at the  Fisher box, just around
the bend, although the Fishers, as a rule, got but little  mail, mostly just
the advertising sheets and  other junk that was  mailed out indiscriminately
to the rural boxholders. Not that it mattered to the  Fishers, for sometimes
days went by in  which they did not pick  up their mail. If it were not  for
Lucy, they perhaps would never get it, for it was mostly Lucy who thought to
pick it up.
     The Fishers  were, for a  fact, Enoch told himself, a  truly  shiftless
outfit. Their  house and  all  the  buildings  were  ready to fall  in  upon
themselves and they raised a grubby patch of corn that was drowned out, more
often  than not, by a  flood rise of the  river. They mowed some  hay  off a
bottom  meadow  and  they had a couple of raw-boned  horses and a half-dozen
scrawny  cows and a flock of chickens. They had  an old clunk of a car and a
still hipen out somewhere in the river bottoms  and  they hunted and  fished
and trapped and were generally no-account. Although, when one considered it,
they  were  not bad  neighbors.  They  tended  to  their  business and never
bothered anyone except  that periodically  they went around, the whole tribe
of them, distributing pamphlets and tracts through the neighborhood for some
obscure fundamentalist sect that Ma  Fisher had become a member of at a tent
revival meeting down in Millville several years before.
     Winslowe didn't stop  at  the Fisher box,  but came boiling  around the
bend in a cloud of dust. He braked the panting machine  to a halt and turned
off the engine.
     "Let her cool a while," he said.
     The block crackled as it started giving up its heat.
     "You made good time today," said Enoch.
     "Lots of people didn't have any mail today," said Winslowe. "Just  went
sailing past their boxes."
     He  dipped  into the pouch  on the seat beside  him  and  brought out a
bundle tied together with a bit of string for Enoch-several daily papers and
two journals.
     "You get a lot of stuff," said Winslowe, "but hardly ever letters."
     "There is no one left," said Enoch, "who would want to write to me."
     "But," said Winslowe, "you got a letter this time."
     Enoch looked,  unable to conceal  surprise, and could see the end of an
envelope peeping from between the journals.
     "A personal letter,"  said Winslowe, almost smacking his lips. "Not one
of them advertising ones. Nor a business one."
     Enoch tucked the bundle underneath his arm, beside the rifle stock.
     "Probably won't amount to much," he said.
     "Maybe not," said Winsl!we, a sly
glitter in his eyes. He pulled  a pipe  and pouch from his pocket and slowly
filled the  pipe. The engine block continued its  crackling and popping. The
sun beat down out of a cloudless sky.  The vegetation alongside the road was
coated with dust and an acrid smell rose from it.
     "Hear   that   ginseng   fellow   is   back   again,"   said  Winslowe,
conversationally, but unable to  keep out a conspiratorial tone. "Been  gone
for three, four days."
     "Maybe off to sell his sang."
     "You ask me," the mailman  said,  "he  ain't hunting sang. He's hunting
something else."
     "Been at it," Enoch said, "for a right smart time."
     "First of all," said Winslowe, "there's barely any market for the stuff
and even if there  was, there isn't any sang. Used to be a good market years
ago. Chinese  used  it for medicine, I guess. But  now there ain't  no trade
with China.  I remember when I was a boy we used to go hunting it.  Not easy
to find, even then. But most days a man could locate a little of it."
     He leaned back in the seat, puffing serenely at his pipe.
     "Funny goings on," he said.
     "I never saw the man," said Enoch.
     "Sneaking  through  the woods," said  Winslowe.  "Digging  up different
kinds of  plants.  Got  the  idea myself he maybe is  a  sort of  magic-man.
Getting stuff to make  up charms and such. Spends a  lot of his time yarning
with the Fisher tribe and  drinking up their likker. You  don't hear much of
it these days,  but I still  hold with magic.  Lots of things science  can't
explain. You take that Fisher girl, the dummy, she can charm off warts."
     "So I've heard," said Enoch.
     And more than that, he thought. She can fix a butterfly.
     Winslowe hunched forward in his seat.
     "Almost forgot," he said. "I have something else for you."
     He lifted a brown paper parcel from the floor and handed it to Enoch.
     "This ain't mail," he said. "It's something that I made for you."
     "Why, thank you," Enoch said, taking it from him.
     "Go ahead," Winslowe said, "and open it up." Enoch hesitated.
     "Ah, hell," said Winslowe, "don't be bashful."
     Enoch tore off  the paper and there it was, a full-figure  wood carving
of himself. It was in  a  blond, honey-colored wood  and  some twelve inches
tall. It shone like  golden crystal in  the sun. He  was walking,  with  his
rifle tucked  beneath his arm and  a wind was blowing,  for he  was  leaning
slightly into it and  there were wind-flutter  ripples on his jacket and his
trousers.
     Enoch gasped, then stood staring at it.
     "Wins," he  said, "that's the  most beautiful piece of work I have ever
seen."
     "Did it," said the mailman, "out of that piece of wood you gave me last
winter. Best piece of whittling  stuff I ever  ran across. Hard and  without
hardly any grain.  No danger of splitting or of nicking or of shreping. When
you make a cut,  you  make it where you want to and it stays the way you cut
it. And  it takes polish as you cut. Just rub it up a little is all you need
to do."
     "You don't know," said Enoch, "how much this means to me."
     "Over the years," the mailman  told him, "you've given me  an awful lot
of  wood.  Different  kinds  of wood no  one's ever seen before.  All of  it
top-grade stuff and beautiful. It was time I was carving something for you."
     "And you,"  said Enoch,  "have  done a  lot for me. Lugging things from
town."
     "Enoch," Winslowe  said, "I like you. I don't  know what you  are and I
ain't about to ask, but anyhow I like you."
     "I wish that I could tell you what I  am,"  said  Enoch.  "Well,"  said
Winslowe,  moving over to plant himself  behind  the wheel, "it don't matter
much what any of us are, just  so we get  along with one another. If some of
the nations  would only take a lesson  from  some  small  neighborhood  like
ours-a lesson in how to get along-the world would be a whole lot better."
     Enoch noped gravely. "It doesn't look too good, does it?"
     "It sure don't," said the mailman, starting up the car.
     Enoch stood and  watched the car move off, down the  bill,  building up
its cloud of dust as it moved along.
     Then he looked again at the wooden statuette of himself.
     It was as if the wooden figure were walking  on a hilltop, naked to the
full force of the wind and bent against the gale.
     Why?  He wondered. What was it the mailman had seen in him  to  portray
him as walking in the wind?

     He  laid  the rifle and  the  mail  upon  a  patch of  dusty  grass and
carefully  rewrapped the  statuette in the piece  of paper. He'd  put it, he
decided,  either  on  the mantelpiece  or, perhaps better yet, on the coffee
table that stood beside  his  favorite chair in the corner by  the desk.  He
wanted it, he admitted to  himself, with some  quiet embarrassment, where it
was  close at hand, where he  could  look  at it or pick  it up any time  he
wished. And he wondered at the deep, heart-warming, soul-satisfying pleasure
that he got from the mailman's gift.
     It was not, he knew, because he was seldom given gifts. Scarcely a week
went past that the alien travelers did not leave several with him. The house
was cluttered and there was a wall of shelves down in the cavernous basement
that were crammed with the stuff that had been given him. Perhaps it was, he
told himself, because this was a gift from Earth, from one of his own kind.
     He tucked  the wrapped statuette  beneath his arm and,  picking  up the
rifle and the mail, headed back for  home, following  the  brush-grown trail
that once had been the wagon road leading to the farm.
     Grass had grown  into  thick turf between the ancient  ruts,  which had
been cut so deep into the clay by the iron tires of the old-time wagons that
they still were no more  than bare, impacted earth in which  no plant as yet
had gained  a root-hold. But on each side  the clumps of brush, creeping  up
the  field from the forest's edge, grew man-high  or better, so that now one
moved down an aisle of green.
     But at certain points, quite unexplainably-perhaps due to the character
of  the  soil  or  to  the  mere vagaries  of nature-the growth of brush had
faltered, and  here were vistas  where one might  look out from the ridgetop
across the river valley.
     It  was from one of  these  vantage points that Enoch caught the  flash
from a  clump  of trees at the edge of the old  field, not too  far from the
spring where he had found Lucy.
     He frowned  as he saw the flash and  stood quietly on the path, waiting
for its repetition But it did not come again.
     It was one of the watchers, he knew, using a pair of binoculars to keep
watch upon the station. The flash he had seen had been the reflection of the
sun upon the glasses.
     Who  were they?  he wondered. And  why should they be watching? It  had
been  going on for some time  now but, strangely, there had been nothing but
the  watching. There  had  been  no interference.  No  one had  attempted to
approach  him, and such approach, he realized,  could have been quite simple
and  quite  natural. If they-whoever  they might be-had wished to  talk with
him,  a very casual meeting could have  been arranged during  any one of his
morning walks.
     But apparently as yet they did not wish to talk.
     What,  then,  he wondered, did they wish  to  do? Keep  track  of  him,
perhaps. And in that regard, he thought, with a  wry inner  twinge of humor,
they could have become  acquainted with the  pattern  of his living in their
first ten days of watching.
     Or perhaps they might be waiting  for some happening that would provide
them with a clue to what he might be doing. And in that direction  there lay
nothing but certain disappointment. They  could watch for a  thousand  years
and gain no hint of it.
     He  turned  from  the  vista and went ploping up the  road, worried and
puzzled by his knowledge of the watchers.
     Perhaps, he thought, they had not attempted to contact  him  because of
certain stories that might be  told about him. Stories that no one, not even
Winslowe, would pass on to him. What kind of stories, he wondered, might the
neighborhood  by  now have been able  to  fabricate about  him-fabulous folk
tales to be told in bated breath about the chimney corner?
     It  might be well, he thought,  that  he  did  not  know  the  stories,
although it would seem almost a certainty that they would exist. And it also
might be as well that the watchers had not attempted  contact with him.  For
so long as there was no contact, he still was fairly safe.  So long as there
were no questions, there need not be any answers.
     Are you really, they would ask, that same Enoch Wallace who marched off
in 1861  to fight  for old Abe Lincoln? And  there was one answer  to  that,
there could only be one answer. Yes, he'd have to say, I am that same man.
     And of all the questions they might ask him that would be the only  one
of  all  he  could  answer  truthfully.  For  all  the  others  there  would
necessarily be silence or evasion.
     They would ask how come that  he had not aged-how  he could stay  young
when all mankind grew old.
     And he could not tell them that he did not age inside the station, that
he only aged when he stepped out of it, that he aged an hour each day on his
daily walks, that he  might age an hour or so working in his garden, that he
could age for fifteen minutes sitting on the steps to watch a lovely sunset.
But that when he  went back  indoors  again the aging process was completely
canceled out.
     He could not tell them that. And there was  much else that he could not
tell  them. There might come a time, he  knew, if they  once  contacted him,
that  he'd  have  to  flee the  questions  and cut himself entirely from the
world, remaining isolated within the station's walls.
     Such a course would constitute  no hardship  physically, for  he  could
live  within  the  station  without  any  inconvenience. He would  want  for
nothing, for the aliens  would  supply everything he needed to  remain alive
and well. He had bought human food at times, having Winslowe purchase it and
haul it out from town, but only  because he felt  a craving for the food  of
his own planet, in particular  those  simple foods of his  childhood and his
campaigning days.
     And,  he told himself, even those  foods might well be supplied  by the
process of duplication. A slab of  bacon or  a dozen  eggs could  be sent to
another  station  and  remain there  as a  master  pattern  for the  pattern
impulses, being sent to him on order as he needed them.
     But there was one thing the aliens could not provide-the human contacts
he'd maintained through Winslowe and the mail. Once shut inside the station,
he'd be  cut off completely from the  world he knew, for the  newspapers and
the magazines were his only contact. The operation of a radio in the station
was made impossible by the interference set up by the installations.
     He would not know what was happening in the world, would know no longer
how the outside might be going.  His chart would suffer from  this and would
become largely useless; although,  he told himself,  it was  nearly  useless
now, since he could not be certain of the correct usage of the factors.
     But  aside  from all of this, he  would miss this  little outside world
that  he  had  grown  to  know  so well,  this  little corner  of  the world
encompassed by  his walks. It was the walks, he thought, more than anything,
perhaps, that had kept him human and a citizen of Earth.
     He wondered how important it  might be that he  remain,  intellectually
and emotionally, a citizen of Earth and a member of the  human  race.  There
was, he thought, perhaps no reason that  he should. With the cosmopolitanism
of the galaxy at his fingertips, it might even be provincial of him to be so
intent upon his continuing identification with the old home planet. He might
be losing something by this provincialism.
     But it was not in himself, he knew, to turn his back on Earth. It was a
place he loved too well-loving it more, most likely, than those other humans
who had not  caught his glimpse of  far and unguessed worlds. A man, he told
himself, must belong to something, must have some loyalty and some identity.
The galaxy was too big a place for any being to stand naked and alone.
     A lark  sailed out of  a grassy plot and soared high into  the sky, and
seeing it, he waited for the trill of liquid song to spray out of its throat
and drip out of the blue. But there was no song, as there would have been in
spring.
     He ploped down the road  and now, ahead of him, he saw the starkness of
the station, reared upon its ridge.
     Funny, he thought, that he should think of it as station rather than as
home, but it had been a station longer than it had been a home.
     There  was about it, he saw, a sort of  ugly solidness, as if  it might
have planted itself upon that ridgetop and meant to stay forever.
     It would  stay, of course, if  one wanted it, as long as one wanted it.
For there was nothing that could touch it.
     Even  should he  be  forced some day  to  remain  within its walls, the
station  still  would stand  against  all  of  mankind's  watching,  all  of
mankind's  prying. They could not chip it and  they could  not  gouge it and
they could not  break  it down. There was nothing  they  could  do.  All his
watching,  all his speculating, all his analyzing,  would  gain  Man nothing
beyond  the  knowledge  that a  highly  unusual  building  existed  on  that
ridgetop. For  it  could survive anything except  a thermonuclear explosion-
and maybe even that.
     He walked into the yard and turned around to look back toward the clump
of trees  from which  the flash  had come,  but  there was  nothing  now  to
indicate that anyone was there.

     Inside the station, the message machine was whistling plaintively.
     Enoch hung up his gun, dropped the mail and statuette upon his desk and
strode across the room to  the whistling machine.  He  pushed the button and
punched the lever and the whistling stopped.
     Upon the message plate he read:
     NO. 406,302 TO STATION 18327. WILL ARRiVE EARLY EVENING YOUR TIME. HAVE
THE COFFEE HOT. ULYSSES.
     Enoch  grinned.  Ulysses  and his  coffee!  He was the only one  of the
aliens who had ever liked  any  of Earth's foods or  drinks. There  had been
others who had tried them, but not more than once or twice.
     Funny about  Ulysses,  he  thought. They had  liked each other from the
very first, from that  afternoon  of the  thunderstorm when  they  had  been
sitting on the steps and the  mask of human form  had peeled off the alien's
face.
     It had been a grisly face, graceless and repulsive. The face, Enoch had
thought, of  a cruel clown. Wondering, even as he  thought it, what had  put
that particular  phrase into his head, for clowns were never cruel. But here
was one that could be-the colored patchwork of the face, the hard, tight set
of jaw, the thin slash of the mouth.
     Then he saw the eyes and  they canceled all the  rest. They were  large
and had a softness  and the light of understanding in them, and they reached
out to him, as another being might hold out its hands in friendship.
     The rain had come hissing  up the land to thrum across the machine-shed
roof,  and then  it was upon them,  slanting  sheets of  rain that  hammered
angrily at the dust which lay across the  yard, while  surprised, bedraggled
chickens ran frantically for cover.
     Enoch  sprang to his feet  and grasped the  other's arm, pulling him to
the shelter of the porch.
     They stood  facing one another, and Ulysses had  reached up  and pulled
the split  and loosened mask away,  revealing  a bullet  head without a hair
upon  it- and the  painted face. A face like  a  wild and  rampaging Indian,
painted  for the warpath, except that here  and  there  were  touches of the
clown,  as  if  the entire painting  job  had been  meant  to point  up  the
inconsistent grotesqueries of war. But even as  he stared, Enoch knew it was
not paint, but  the natural  coloration of this  thing  which had  come from
somewhere among the stars.
     Whatever other doubt there was,  or whatever wonder, Enoch had no doubt
at all that  this strange being was not  of the Earth. For it was not human.
It might be in human  form,  with  a pair of arms and legs,  with a head and
face. But  there was about it an essence of inhumanity, almost a negation of
humanity.
     In olden days, perhaps, he thought, it might have been a demon, but the
days were  past (although, in some areas  of the country, not entirely past)
when one believed in demons  or  in  ghosts or in any of the others of  that
ghastly tribe which, in man's imagination, once had walked the Earth.
     From  the  stars,  he'd said. And perhaps he was.  Although it  made no
sense. It was nothing one  ever had imagined  even  in  the purest  fantasy.
There  was  nothing  to  grab hold of, nothing to hang  on to. There  was no
yardstick for  it and there were no rules. And it left a sort of blank  spot
in one's thinking that might fill  in, come time, but now was no more than a
tunnel of great wonder that went on and on forever.
     "Take your time," the alien said. "I  know it is not easy. And I do not
know of a thing that I can do to make it easier. There is, after all, no way
for me to prove I am from the stars."
     "But you talk so well."
     "In your tongue, you mean. It was  not too  difficult. If you only knew
of  all the languages in the galaxy, you would realize how little difficult.
Your  language is not hard.  It is  a basic one and there are many  concepts
with which it need not deal."
     And, Enoch conceded, that  could be  true enough. "If  you  wish,"  the
alien said,  "I can walk off  somewhere for a day or two. Give  you time  to
think. Then I could come back. You'd have thought it out by then."
     Enoch smiled, woodenly, and the  smile  had  an unnatural feel upon his
face.
     "That would give me time,"  he said, "to  spread  alarm throughout  the
countryside. There might be an ambush waiting for you."
     The  alien shook its head. "I am sure you wouldn't do it. I would  take
the chance. If you want me to ..."
     "No," said Enoch, so calmly he surprised himself. "No,  when you have a
thing to face, you face it. I learned that in the war."
     "You'll do," the alien said. "You will do all right. I did not misjudge
you and it makes me proud."
     "Misjudge me?"
     "You  do not think I just came walking in here cold? I know about  you,
Enoch.  Almost as much, perhaps, as you know about  yourself. Probably  even
more."
     "You know my name?"
     "Of course I do."
     "Well, that is fine," said Enoch. "And what about your own?"
     "I am seized with great embarrassment," the alien told him. "For I have
no name as such.  Identification, surely, that fits the purpose  of my race,
but nothing that the tongue can form."
     Supenly,  for  no reason, Enoch remembered that slouchy figure perching
on the top rail of a fence, with a stick in one hand  and a jackknife in the
other, whittling placidly while the cannon balls whistled  overhead and less
than half a mile  away  the  muskets snarled  and  crackled in the billowing
powder smoke that rose above the line.
     "Then you need a  name  to  call  you by,"  he  said, "and it shall  be
Ulysses. I need to call you something,"
     "It is agreeable," said that strange  one. "But might  one ask  why the
name Ulysses?"
     "Because it is the name," said Enoch, "of a great man of my race."
     It was a crazy thing,  of course. For  there was no resemblance between
the two of them-that slouchy Union general  whittling as he perched upon the
fence and this other who stood upon the porch.
     "I am glad you chose it," said this Ulysses, standing on the porch. "To
my hearing it has a  dignified and noble sound and, between the two of us, I
shall  be  glad  to bear it. And I shall call you Enoch,  as  friends of the
first names, for the two of us shall work together for many of your years."
     It was  beginning to come straight now and the  thought was staggering.
Perhaps it was as well,  Enoch told himself, that it had waited for a while,
that he had been so dazed it had not come on him all at once.
     "Perhaps,"  said Enoch, fighting back the realization that was crowding
in  on him, crowding in too fast, "I could  offer you some victuals. I could
cook up some coffee..."
     "Coffee,"  said  Ulysses,  smacking  his  thin lips.  "Do you  have the
coffee?"
     "I'll make a big pot of it. I'll break in  an  egg  so it  will  settle
clear ..."
     "Delectable," Ulysses said. "Of all the drinks that I have drank on all
the planets I have visited, the coffee is the best."
     They  went into-the kitchen  and  Enoch  stirred up  the coals  in  the
kitchen range and then put  in new wood. He took  the  coffeepot over to the
sink and ladled in some water from the water pail and put it on to boil.  He
went into the pantry to get  some  eggs and down into the cellar to bring up
the ham.
     Ulysses sat stiffly in a kitchen chair and watched him as he worked.
     "You eat ham and eggs?" asked Enoch.
     "I eat anything," Ulysses said. "My race is most adaptable. That is the
reason I  was sent to this planet  as a-what do you  call  it?-a looker-out,
perhaps."
     "A scout," suggested Enoch.
     "That is it, a scout."
     He was an  easy thing  to  talk with,  Enoch told  himself-almost  like
another  person, although, God knows,  he  looked  little like a  person. He
looked, instead, like some outrageous caricature of a human being.
     "You  have lived  here, in this house," Ulysses said, "for a long, long
time. You feel affection for it."
     "It  has  been my  home," said Enoch, "since the day that I was born. I
was gone from it for almost four years, but it was always home."
     "I'll  be  glad,"  Ulysses  told him, "to be getting home again myself.
I've been  away too long. On a mission such  as this one, it  always  is too
long."
     Enoch put down the knife he had been  using to cut a  slice  of ham and
sat  down  heavily in a chair. He stared  at  Ulysses, across the table from
him.
     "You?" he asked. "You are going home?"
     "Why, of course," Ulysses told him.  "Now that my job is nearly done. I
have got a home. Did you think I hadn't?"
     "I don't know," said Enoch weakly. "I had never thought of it."
     And that was it, he knew. It had not occurred to him to connect a being
such as this with a thing like home. For it was only human beings that had a
place called home.
     "Some day," Ulysses said, "I shall tell you about my home. Some day you
may even visit me."
     "Out among the stars," said Enoch.
     "It seems strange to you now," Ulysses said. "It will  take a  while to
get  used  to  the idea.  But  as  you  come to know  us-all of  us-you will
understand. And I hope you like  us. We are not  bad people, really. Not any
of the many different kinds of us."
     The stars, Enoch  told himself, were out  there  in  the loneliness  of
space and how far they were he could not even guess, nor what they  were nor
why. Another world, he thought-no, that was wrong-many  other  worlds. There
were  people there, perhaps many  other people; a different kind of  people,
probably,  for every different star.  And one of  them sat here in this very
kitchen, waiting for the coffeepot to boil, for the ham and eggs to fry.
     "But why?" he asked. "But why?"
     "Because,"  Ulysses said, "we are a traveling people.  We need a travel
station here. We want to  turn this house into a station and you to keep the
station."
     "This house?"
     "We could not build a station, for then we'd have people asking who was
building it and what it  might be for. So we  are forced to  use an existing
structure and change it for our needs. But inside only. We leave the outside
as  it is,  in appearance,  that is.  For there must be no questions  asked.
There must be ..."
     "But traveling ..."
     "From  star  to star," Ulysses said. "Quicker  than the thought  of it.
Faster than a wink.  There  is what you would  call machinery, but it is not
machinery-not the same as the machinery you think of."
     "You must excuse me," Enoch said, confused. "It seems so impossible."
     "You remember when the railroad came to Millville?"
     "Yes, I can remember that. I was just a kid."
     "Then think of it this way. This is just another railroad and the Earth
is just another town and  this  house will  be the station for this new  and
different railroad. The only difference is that no one on Earth but you will
know the  railroad's here.  For  it  will be no more than  a  resting  and a
switching point. No  one  on  the  Earth  can  buy a ticket to travel on the
railroad."
     Put  that way, of  course, it  had a simple  sound, but it  was,  Enoch
sensed, very far from simple.
     "Railroad cars in space?" he asked.
     "Not railroad cars," Ulysses told  him. "It is something else. I do not
know how to begin to tell you ..."
     "Perhaps you should pick someone else. Someone who would understand."
     "There  is no  one on  this planet who  could remotely  understand. No,
Enoch, we'll do with you  as  well as anyone. In many ways, much better than
with anyone."
     "But ..."
     "What is it, Enoch?"
     "Nothing," Enoch said.
     For he remembered now how he had been sitting on the steps thinking how
he was alone and about a new beginning, knowing that  he could  not escape a
new beginning, that he must start from scratch and build his life anew.
     And here, supenly,  was that  new beginning-more wondrous and  fearsome
than anything he could have dreamed even in an insane moment.

     Enoch filed the message and sent his confirmation:
     NO. 406302 RECEIVED. COFFEE ON THE FIRE. ENOCH.
     Clearing  the machine,  he walked over to the  No.  3 liquid  tank he'd
prepared  before he left. He checked the temperature and the  level  of  the
solution and made  certain once  again that the tank was securely positioned
in relation to the materializer.
     From  there  he  went  to the  other  materializer,  the  official  and
emergency materializer,  positioned in  the  corner,  and  checked  it  over
closely. It  was  all right, as  usual. It always was all right,  but before
each of Ulysses's  visits  he never failed to check it. There was nothing he
could have done about  it had there been something wrong other  than send an
urgent message to Galactic Central. In which case someone would have come in
on the regular materializer and put it into shape.
     For the official and emergency materializer was  exactly  what its name
implied. It was  used  only  for official visits  by  personnel  of Galactic
Center or  for possible emergencies  and its  operation was entirely outside
that of the local station.
     Ulysses, as  an  inspector for this  and several  other stations, could
have  used the  official  materializer  at any  time he wished without prior
notice. But in all the  years that he had been coming to the  station he had
never failed, Enoch remembered with a touch of pride, to message that he was
coming.  It was, he knew, a  courtesy  which all  the other stations  on the
great  galactic  network might not be accorded, although there were  some of
them which might be given equal treatment.
     Tonight,  he  thought, he probably  should tell Ulysses about the watch
that had been put upon the station. Perhaps he should have told him earlier,
but he had been reluctant  to admit that the human race might prove to be  a
problem to the galactic installation.
     It was a hopeless thing,  he  thought, this obsession of his to present
the people of the Earth as good  and reasonable.  For in many ways they were
neither  good nor reasonable; perhaps because they  had not as  yet entirely
grown up. They  were  smart and  quick  and  at times compassionate and even
understanding, but they failed lamentably in many other ways.
     But if  they  had the  chance,  Enoch told  himself, if they ever got a
break, if they only could be told what was out in space, then  they'd get  a
grip upon themselves  and they would measure up  and then, in  the course of
time, would  be  admitted into  the great cofraternity  of the people of the
stars.
     Once  admitted,  they would  prove  their  worth and  would  pull their
weight, for they were still a young race and full of energy-at times, maybe,
too much energy.
     Enoch shook his  head and went across the room to sit down at his desk.
Drawing  the  bundle of mail in front of him,  he slid it out of  the string
which Winslowe had used to tie it all together.
     There  were the daily papers, a  news weekly, two  journals-Nature  and
Science-and the letter.
     He pushed  the papers and the journals to one side and  picked  up  the
letter. It was, he saw, an air mail sheet and was postmarked London  and the
return apress bore a name that was  unfamiliar to him. He puzzled as to  why
an unknown person should be writing him  from London.  Although, he reminded
himself, anyone who wrote from London, or indeed from anywhere, would  be an
unknown person. He knew no one in London nor elsewhere in the world.
     He slit the  air sheet open and spread  it out on the desk in  front of
him, pulling the desk lamp close so the light would fall upon the writing.
     Dear sir [he read], I  would suspect I am unknown to  you. I am one  of
several editors of the British journal,  Nature,  to  which you have been  a
subscriber for these  many years. I  do  not  use the  journal's  letterhead
because this letter  is personal and unofficial and  perhaps not even in the
best of taste.
     You  are,  it may interest you to  know, our eldest subscriber. We have
had you on our mailing lists for more than eighty years.
     While  I  am aware that it is no  appropriate concern of mine,  I  have
wondered if  you,  yourself, have  subscribed to our  publication  for  this
length of time, or if it might be possible that your father or someone close
to you may have been the original subscriber and you simply have allowed the
subscription to continue in his name.
     My  interest undoubtedly  constitutes  an  unwarranted and  inexcusable
curiosity and  if you, sir, choose to ignore the query it is entirely within
your rights and proper that you do so. But if you should not mind  replying,
an answer would be appreciated.
     I can  only say in my own defense that  I have been  associated for  so
long with  our publication that I feel a certain sense of pride that someone
has found it worth the having for more than eighty years. I  doubt that many
publications can boast such long time interest on the part of any man.
     May I assure, you, sir, of my utmost respect.
     Sincerely yours.
     And then the signature.
     Enoch shoved the letter from him.
     And  there  it was  again, he  told himself.  Here was another watcher,
although discreet and most polite and unlikely to cause trouble.
     But someone else who had taken  notice, who had felt a twinge of wonder
at the same man subscribing to a magazine for more than eighty years.
     As the years went on, there would be more and more. It was not only the
watchers encamped outside the station with whom he must concern himself, but
those potential  others. A  man could  be as self-effacing  as he well could
manage and still he  could not hide. Soon  or late the world would catch  up
with him and would come crowding around  his door, agog to know why he might
be hiding.
     It  was  useless, he knew, to hope for much further time. The world was
closing in.
     Why can't they leave me alone? he thought. If he only could explain how
the situation stood, they might leave him alone. But he couldn't  explain to
them. And  even if  he  could, there would be some  of them who'd still come
crowding in.
     Across the room the materializer beeped for attention  and Enoch  swung
around.
     The Thuban had  arrived. He was in the tank, a shadowy globular blob of
substance, and above him,  riding sluggishly in the solution, was  a cube of
something.
     Luggage, Enoch wondered. But  the  message had said  there  would be no
luggage.
     Even as he hurried across the room, the clicking came to him-the Thuban
talking to him.
     "Presentation to you," said the clicking. "Deceased vegetation."
     Enoch peered at the cube floating in the liquid.
     "Take him," clicked the Thuban. "Bring him for you."
     Fumblingly, Enoch clicked out his answer, using tapping fingers against
the glass side of the tank: "I thank you, gracious one." Wondering as he did
it, if he  were using  the  proper  form of apress to this blob of matter. A
man, he told himself, could get terribly tangled up on that particular point
of  etiquette. There were some of these beings that one apressed in  flowery
language  (and even in those cases, the  floweriness would  vary) and others
that one talked with in the simplest, bluntest terms.
     He reached into the tank and lifted out the cube and be saw that it was
a block of heavy wood,  black as ebony  and so  close-grained it looked very
much like stone.  He  chuckled  inwardly,  thinking  how,  in  listening  to
Winslowe, he had grown to be an expert in the judging of artistic wood.
     He put the wood upon the floor and turned back to the tank.
     "Would you mind,"  clicked the Thuban, "revealing what you do with him?
To us, very useless stuff."
     Enoch  hesitated,  searching desperately through  his  memory. What, he
wondered, was the code for "carve?"
     "Well?" the Thuban asked.
     "You must pardon me, gracious one. I do not  use this language often. I
am not proficient."
     "Drop, please, the 'gracious one.' I am a common being."
     "Shape it," Enoch tapped. "Into  another form. Are  you a visual being?
Then I show you one."
     "Not visual," said the Thuban. "Many other things, not visual."
     It had been a globe when it had arrived  and now  it  was  beginning to
flatten out.
     "You," the Thuban clicked, "are a biped being."
     "That is what I am."
     "Your planet. It is a solid planet?"
     Solid? Enoch wondered. Oh, yes, solid as opposed to liquid.
     "One-quarter solid," he tapped. "The rest of it is liquid."
     "Mine almost all liquid. Only little solid. Very restful world."
     "One thing I want to ask you," Enoch tapped.
     "Ask," the creature said.
     "You are a mathematician. All you folks, I mean."
     "Yes," the creature said. "Excellent recreation. Occupies the mind."
     "You mean you do not use it?"
     "Oh, yes, once use it. But no need for use any more. Got all we need to
use, very long ago. Recreation now."
     "I have heard of your system of numerical notation."
     "Very different," clicked the Thuban. "Very better concept."
     "You can tell me of it?"
     "You know notation system used by people of Polaris VII?"
     "No, I don't," tapped Enoch.
     "Then no use to tell you of our own. Must know Polaris first."
     So that was that, thought Enoch. He might have known. There was so much
knowledge in the galaxy and he knew so little of it, understood so little of
the little that he knew.
     There were men on Earth who could make  sense of it. Men who would give
anything  short  of  their very lives to know the  little that he  knew, and
could put it all to use.
     Out  among the  stars  lay  a massive body  of knowledge, some of it an
extension of what  mankind knew, some of it concerning matters which Man had
not yet suspected, and used in ways and for purposes that Man had not as yet
imagined. And never might imagine, if left on his own.
     Another hundred  years, thought  Enoch. How  much  would  he  learn  in
another hundred years? In another thousand?
     "I rest now," said the Thuban. "Nice to talk with you."

     Enoch  turned from the tank and picked up the block of wood.  A  little
puple of liquid had drained off it and lay glistening on the floor.
     He carried the block across the room to one of the windows and examined
it. It was heavy and black  and close-grained and at one  corner of it a bit
of  bark remained.  It  had been sawed. Someone had  cut it into a size that
would fit the tank where the Thuban rested.
     He recalled  an article  he  had read in one of the daily papers just a
day  or  two  before in which  a  scientist  had  contended  that  no  great
intelligence ever could develop on a liquid world.
     But that scientist was wrong, for the Thuban race had so  developed and
there  were  other  liquid  worlds  which  were  members  of   the  galactic
cofraternity. There were a lot of things, he  told himself,  that  Man would
have to unlearn, as well as things to learn, if he  ever should become aware
of the galactic culture.
     The limitation of the speed of light, for one thing.
     For if nothing moved faster  than the speed of light, then the galactic
transport system would be impossible.
     But  one should not censure  Man, he  reminded himself, for setting the
speed  of  light  as a basic limitation.  Observations were all that  Man-or
anyone, for  that matter-could use as data upon which to base his  premises.
And since human  science  had so far found nothing which consistently  moved
faster than  the  speed of  light,  then  the  assumption must be valid that
nothing could  or did consistently move faster. But valid  as  an assumption
only and no more than that.
     For the  impulse patterns which  carried creatures  star to  star  were
almost instantaneous, no matter what the distance.
     He  stood  and thought about  it and it still  was hard, he admitted to
himself, for a person to believe.
     Moments  ago the creature  in  the tank had  rested  in another tank in
another station  and the materializer had built up a pattern of  it-not only
of its body, but of its very vital force,  the thing that gave it life. Then
the   impulse   pattern  had  moved   across  the   gulfs  of  space  almost
instantaneously to the receiver of this  station, where the pattern had been
used  to  duplicate the  body and the  mind and  memory and the life of that
creature  now lying dead  many light years distant. And in the tank the  new
body and the new mind and memory and  life  had taken almost instant form-an
entirely  new  being, but exactly like the old  one, so  that  the  identity
continued and  the consciousness  (the very thought no more than momentarily
interrupted), so that to all intent and purpose the being was the same.
     There were limitations to the impulse patterns, but this had nothing to
do  with speed, for the  impulses  could cross the entire  galaxy  with  but
little  lag  in time. But under certain conditions the  patterns  tended  to
break down and this  was why  there must be many  stations-many thousands of
them. Clouds of  dust or gas or areas of high ionization  seemed to  disrupt
the patterns and in those sectors of the  galaxy where these conditions were
encountered, the distance jumps between the stations  were  considerably cut
down  to  keep the  pattern true. There  were areas that  had to be detoured
because of high concentrations of the distorting gas and dust.
     Enoch wondered how many  dead bodies of the creature that now rested in
the tank had been left behind at other stations in the course of the journey
it was  making-as  this body in a few hours' time would lie dead within this
tank when  the creature's pattern was sent out again, riding  on the impulse
waves.
     A long  trail of dead, he  thought,  left across the stars,  each to be
destroyed by a wash of acid and flushed  into deep-lying tanks, but with the
creature itself going on and on until it  reached  its final destination  to
carry out the purpose of its journey.
     And those  purposes,  Enoch  wondered-the many  purposes  of  the  many
creatures who passed through the stations scattered wide in space? There had
been certain instances  when,  chatting with  the  travelers,  they had told
their purpose, but with the  most of  them he never learned  the purpose-nor
had he any right to learn it. For he was the keeper only.
     Mine host, he thought, although  not every time, for  there  were  many
creatures that had no use for  hosts. But the man, at any rate, who  watched
over the operation of the station and who kept it going, who made ready  for
the  travelers  and who sent them on their way  again when  that time should
come. And who performed the little  tasks and courtesies of which they might
stand in need.
     He looked at the block of wood  and thought  how pleased Winslowe would
be with it. It was very seldom that one came  upon a wood  that was as black
or finegrained as this.
     What  would Winslowe think, he wondered, if he could only know that the
statuettes he carved were made of woods  that had grown on  unknown  planets
many light  years distant. Winslowe, he knew,  must have wondered many times
where the wood came from and how his friend could have gotten it. But he had
never asked. And  he knew as well, of course,  that there was something very
strange about  this  man who came out to the  mailbox every day to meet him.
But he had never asked that, either.
     And that was friendship, Enoch told himself.
     This  wood,  too,  that he held in  his hands,  was another evidence of
friendship-the friendship of  the  stars for every humble keeper of a remote
and backwoods  station stuck out in one  of the  spiral arms,  far from  the
center of the galaxy.
     The  word  had  spread,  apparently,  through the  years and throughout
space, that this certain  keeper was a  collector of exotic woods-and so the
woods  came in. Not only from those races he  thought of as his friends, but
from total strangers, like the blob that now rested in the tank.
     He put the wood down on a table top and  went to the refrigerator. From
it he  took a  slab  of aged cheese that Winslowe had bought for him several
days ago, and  a small  package of  fruit  that a traveler from Sirrah X had
brought the day before.
     "Analyzed," it had  told him, "and you can eat it without hurt. It will
play no trouble with your metabolism.  You've had it before, perhaps? So you
haven't. I am sorry. It is most  delicious. Next time, you like  it, I shall
bring you more."
     From the cupboard  beside the  refrigerator he  took  out a small, flat
loaf  of  bread,  part  of  the ration  regularly provided  him  by Galactic
Central. Made  of a cereal unlike any known  on Earth, it had  a  distinctly
nutty flavor with the faintest hint of some alien spice.
     He put the food on what he called the kitchen table, although there was
no kitchen. Then he put the coffee maker  on  the stove and went back to his
desk.
     The  letter still lay there, spread out, and he folded it  together and
put it in a drawer.
     He  stripped the brown folders off the papers and  put them in a  pile.
From the pile he selected the New York Times and moved to his favorite chair
to read.
     NEW PEACE CONFERENCE AGREED UPON,
     said the lead-off headline.
     The crisis had  been boiling for a month  or more, the newest of a long
series  of crises which had kept the  world on edge for years. And the worst
of it, Enoch  told  himself,  was  that  the most of  them were manufactured
crises, with one side or the  other pushing for advantage  in the relentless
chess game of power politics which had been under way since the end of World
War II.
     The  stories  in the  Times  bearing  on  the conference  had  a rather
desperate, almost fatalistic, ring,  as  if the writers of the  stories, and
perhaps the  diplomats and all  the rest involved, knew the conference would
accomplish nothing-if, in fact, it did not serve to make the crisis deeper.
     Observers in this capital [wrote one  of the Times's Washington  bureau
staff] are  not convinced the  conference will  serve, in this  instance, as
similar conferences  sometimes have  served in  the past, to either delay  a
showdown on the issues or to  advance the prospects for  a settlement. There
is scarcely  concealed concern  in many quarters that  the conference  will,
instead,   fan  the  flames  of  controversy   higher  without,  by  way  of
compensation, opening any avenues by which a compromise might seem possible.
A conference is popularly supposed to provide a time and place for the sober
weighing of the facts and points of arguments, but there are few  who see in
the calling of this conference any indications that this may be the case.
     The coffee  maker  was  going full  blast now and Enoch threw the paper
down  and strode to the stove to  snatch it off. From  the cupboard he got a
cup and went to the table with it.
     But  before he  began to eat,  he went back to the desk  and, opening a
drawer, got out his chart and spread it on the table. Once again he wondered
just how valid it  might be, although in certain parts of it,  at  times, it
seemed to make a certain sort of sense.
     He  had based it on the Mizar theory of statistics and had been forced,
because of  the nature  of his  subject, to shift some of  the  factors,  to
substitute some  values. He wondered now, for the thousandth time, if he had
made an error somewhere. Had  his  shifting  and  substitution destroyed the
validity  of the system? And  if  so,  how  could he correct  the  errors to
restore validity?
     Here  the factors were,  he  thought:  the  birth rate  and  the  total
population of  the  Earth, the  death  rate, the values  of currencies,  the
spread of  living costs,  attendance of places of worship, medical advances,
technological  developments,  industrial indices,  the  labor market,  world
trade trends-and many others, including some that at first glance might  not
seem too relevant:  the auction price  of  art objects, vacation preferences
and movements, the speed of transportation, the incidence of insanity.
     The  statistical method developed  by  the mathematicians of Mizar,  he
knew,  would  work anywhere,  on anything, if applied correctly. But  he had
been forced to  twist  it in translating an alien  planet's situation to fit
the  situation here on  Earth-and in  consequence of  that twisting, did  it
still apply?
     He shupered as he  looked at it. For  if he'd made no  mistake, if he'd
handled everything correctly,  if  his translations had done no violence  to
the concept, then the Earth was headed straight for another major war, for a
holocaust of nuclear destruction.
     He let loose of the corners of the chart and it rolled itself back into
a cylinder.
     He reached for one  of the fruits  the Sirrah being had brought him and
bit into it. He rolled it on his tongue, savoring the delicacy of the taste.
It was, he decided, as good  as that  strange, birdlike being had guaranteed
it would be.
     There had  been a time,  he remembered, when he had held some hope that
the chart based on the Mizar theory might show, if not a way to end all war,
at least a way to keep the peace. But the chart  had never given any hint of
the road to peace. Inexorably, relentlessly, it had led the way to war.
     How many other wars, he wondered, could the people of the Earth endure?
     No man could say, of  course,  but it might be just one  more. For  the
weapons  that  would be  used  in  the coming conflict had not as  yet  been
measured  and there was no  man who could come close to actually  estimating
the results these weapons would produce.
     War  had been bad enough when men faced  one another with their weapons
in their hands, but  in any present war great payloads  of destruction would
go hurtling through  the skies to engulf whole cities-aimed not at  military
concentrations, but at total populations.
     He reached out his hand for the chart again, then pulled it back. There
was no  further need of looking at it. He knew it all by heart. There was no
hope in it. He might study it and puzzle over it until the crack of doom and
it would  not  change a whit.  There  was no  hope  at all.  The  world  was
thundering once again, in a blind red haze of fury and of helplessness, down
the road to war.
     He went on with  his  eating and the  fruit was even better than it had
been at  first  bite. "Next  time," the being  had said,  "I  will bring you
more." But it might be a long time before he  came again, and he might never
come. There were many of them who passed  through only once,  although there
were a  few who showed up every week  or so-old,  regular travelers  who had
become close friends.
     And there had been, he recalled, that little group of Hazers who, years
ago, had made arrangements  for extra  long stopovers at the station so they
could  sit around  this very  table  and talk the hours away, arriving laden
with hampers and with baskets of things to  eat  and drink, as  if it were a
picnic.
     But finally they had stopped their coming and it had  been years  since
he'd seen any one of them. And he regretted it, for they'd been the best  of
companions.
     He drank an extra  cup of coffee, sitting idly  in the  chair, thinking
about those good old days when the band of Hazers came.
     His ears caught the faint rustling and he glanced quickly up to see her
sitting on the sofa, dressed in the demure hoop skirts of the 1860s.
     "Mary!" he said, surprised, rising to his feet.
     She was smiling at him  in her very special way and she  was beautiful,
he thought, as no other woman ever had been beautiful.
     "Mary," he said, "it's so nice to have you here."
     And now,  leaning on the  mantelpiece, dressed in Union  blue, with his
belted saber and his full black mustache, was another of his friends.
     "Hello, Enoch," David Ransome said. "I hope we don't intrude."
     "Never," Enoch told him. "How can two friends intrude?"
     He stood  beside  the  table  and the past was  with him, the  good and
restful past, the rose-scented and unhaunted past that had never left him.
     Somewhere in the distance was the sound of fife and drum and the jangle
of the  battle harness  as the boys  marched off to  war,  with the  colonel
glorious in  his full-dress uniform upon  the great black  stallion, and the
regimental flags snapping in the stiff June breeze.
     He walked across the room and over to the sofa. He made a little bow to
Mary.
     "With your permission, ma'am," he said.
     "Please do," she said. "If you should happen to be busy ..."
     "Not at all," he said. "I was hoping you would come."
     He sat down  on the  sofa, not  too close to her, and  he saw her hands
were  folded, very primly, in  her lap. He  wanted to reach out and take her
hands in his and hold them for a moment, but he knew he couldn't.
     For she wasn't really there.
     "It's been almost a week," said Mary, "since I've seen you. How is your
work going, Enoch?"
     He  shook his head. "I still have  all the problems. The watchers still
are out there. And the chart says war."
     David left the mantel and came across  the room. He sat down in a chair
and arranged his saber.
     "War, the way they fight it these days," he declared, "would be a sorry
business. Not the way we fought it, Enoch."
     "No,"  said Enoch, "not the way we fought it. And while a war  would be
bad enough  itself,  there is something worse.  If Earth fights another war,
our people will be barred, if not forever, at least for many centuries, from
the cofraternity of space."
     "Maybe that's not so bad," said David. "We may not be ready to join the
ones in space."
     "Perhaps not," Enoch admitted. "I rather doubt we  are. But we could be
some  day. And  that day would  be shoved  far  into the future  if we fight
another war. You have to make some pretense of being civilized to join those
other races."
     "Maybe,"  Mary said, "they might never know. About a war, I mean.  They
go no place but this station."
     Enoch shook  his  head. "They would know. I think they're watching  us.
And anyhow, they would read the papers."
     "The papers you subscribe to?"
     "I  save them for Ulysses. That pile over in the corner. He takes  them
back to Galactic Central every time he comes. He's very interested in Earth,
you know, from the years he spent here. And from Galactic Central, once he'd
read them, I have a hunch they travel to the corners of the galaxy."
     "Can  you  imagine," David asked, "what the  promotion  departments  of
those newspapers might have to say about it if they only knew their depth of
circulation."
     Enoch grinned at the thought of it.
     "There's  that paper down in Georgia,"  David  said, "that covers Dixie
like the dew. They'd have to think of something that goes with galaxy."
     "Glove,"  said Mary quickly. "Covers  the galaxy  like a glove. What do
you think of that?"
     "Excellent," said David.
     "Poor Enoch," Mary said contritely. "Here we make our jokes  and  Enoch
has his problems."
     "Not mine to solve,  of course," Enoch  told her. "I'm just worried  by
them. All I have to do is stay inside the station and there are no problems.
Once you close the  door here, the problems of the world are securely locked
outside."
     "But you can't do that."
     "No, I can't," said Enoch.
     "I think you may be right," said David,  "in thinking that these  other
races may be watching us. With  an eye, perhaps, to  some  day inviting  the
human race to join them. Otherwise, why would  they have wanted  to set up a
station here on Earth?"
     "They're expanding the network all the time," said  Enoch. "They needed
a station in this solar system to carry out their extension into this spiral
arm."
     "Yes, that's true enough," said  David, "but it need  not have been the
Earth. They could have built a station out  on Mars  and used an alien for a
keeper and still have served their purpose."
     "I've often thought of that," said Mary. "They wanted  a station on the
Earth and an Earthman as its keeper. There must be a reason for it."
     "I had hoped there was," Enoch told her, "but  I'm afraid they came too
soon. It's too early  for the  human race. We aren't grown up. We  still are
juveniles."
     "It's  a shame,"  said Mary. "We'd have so much  to learn. They know so
much more than we. Their concept of religion, for example."
     "I don't know," said Enoch, "whether it's actually a religion. It seems
to have few of the trappings we associate with religion. And it is not based
on faith.  It  doesn't  have to be. It is based  on knowledge. These  people
know, you see."
     "You mean the spiritual force."
     "It is there," said Enoch, "just as surely as all the other forces that
make  up the  universe. There is a spiritual force, exactly as there is time
and space and  gravitation  and  all  the  other  factors  that make up  the
immaterial universe. It is there and they can establish contact with it ..."
     "But  don't you  think," asked  David, "that the human race  may  sense
this? They don't know it, but  they  sense it. And are reaching out to touch
it. They haven't got the  knowledge, so they must  do the best they can with
faith.  And that  faith  goes  back  a far way. Back, perhaps, deep into the
prehistoric days. A crude faith, then, but a  sort of  faith, a grasping for
faith."
     "I suppose so," Enoch said. "But it actually wasn't the spiritual force
I was thinking of. There are all the other things, the material things,  the
methods, the  philosophies that the human  race  could use. Name almost  any
branch of science  and there is something there  for us,  more than  what we
have."
     But his mind went back to  that strange business of the spiritual force
and the even  stranger machine which had been  built  eons  ago, by means of
which  the galactic people were able to  establish contact  with  the force.
There was a  name for  that machine, but  there was no  word  in the English
language  which  closely approximated it. "Talisman"  was the  closest,  but
Talisman was too crude a word. Although  that had been the word that Ulysses
had used when, some years ago, they had talked of it.
     There were so  many things, so many concepts,  he  thought,  out in the
galaxy which  could not be adequately expressed in any tongue  on Earth. The
Talisman was more than a  talisman and the  machine which had been given the
name was more than a  mere  machine.  Involved  in  it, as well  as  certain
mechanical  concepts, was a psychic  concept,  perhaps some  sort of psychic
energy that  was  unknown on Earth. That and a great  deal more. He had read
some  of the literature on the spiritual  force and on  the Talisman and had
realized, he  remembered, in the reading of  it, how far short  he fell, how
far short the human race must fall, in an understanding of it.
     The Talisman  could  be operated  only  by certain beings  with certain
types of minds and something else besides (could  it  be,  he wondered, with
certain  kinds  of souls?). "Sensitives"  was  the word  he  had used in his
mental translation of the term for these kinds of people, but once again, he
could not be sure if the word came close to fitting. The Talisman was placed
in  the  custody of the  most capable,  or the most efficient,  or the  most
devoted (whichever it might be) of the galactic sensitives, who  carried  it
from star to star in a sort of eternal  progression.  And on each planet the
people came to make personal and individual contact with the spiritual force
through the intervention and the agency of the Talisman and its custodian.
     He found that he was shivering at the thought of it-the pure ecstasy of
reaching out and touching the  spirituality that flooded through the  galaxy
and, undoubtedly, through the universe. The assurance  would  be  there,  he
thought, the assurance that life had a special place  in the great scheme of
existence,  that one, no matter  how  small, how feeble,  how insignificant,
still did count for something in the vast sweep of space and time.
     "What is the trouble, Enoch?" Mary asked.
     "Nothing," he  said. "I  was  just  thinking. I  am sorry.  I  will pay
attention now."
     "You  were  talking," David  said, "about what  we  could  find  in the
galaxy. There was,  for  one thing,  that  strange sort of  math.  You  were
telling us of it once and it was something ..."
     "The  Arcturus math,  you mean," said Enoch. "I know  little  more than
when  I  told  you  of  it.  It  is  too  involved. It is based on  behavior
symbolism."
     There  was some  doubt,  he told  himself,  that you could even call it
math, although, by analysis, that was probably what it was. It was something
that  the scientists of  Earth, no doubt, could  use  to make  possible  the
engineering of  the  social sciences as logically and as  efficiently as the
common brand of math had been used to build the gadgets of the Earth.
     "And the biology of  that race in  Andromeda," Mary said. "The ones who
colonized all those crazy planets."
     "Yes, I know. But Earth would have to mature a bit in its  intellectual
and emotional outlook before we'd venture to use it  as the Andromedans did.
Still, I suppose that it would have its applications."
     He shupered inwardly as he thought of how the  Andromedans used it. And
that, he knew, was proof that  he  still was  a man of Earth, kin to all the
bias and the prejudice and the shibboleths of the human mind.  For what  the
Andromedans had done was only common  sense. If you cannot colonize a planet
in  your present shape, why,  then you change your shape. You make  yourself
into the sort  of being that  can live upon  the planet and then you take it
over in  that alien shape into which you have  changed yourself. If you need
to be a worm, then you become a worm-or an insect or a shellfish or whatever
it may  take. And you change not your body only, but your mind as well, into
the kind of mind that will be necessary to live upon that planet.
     "There  are all the drugs," said Mary, "and  the medicines. The medical
knowledge that could apply to Earth. There was that  little package Galactic
Central sent you."
     "A  packet of drugs," said Enoch, "that could cure almost every ill  on
Earth. That,  perhaps, hurts me most of all. To know they're up there in the
cupboard, actually on this planet, where so many people need them."
     "You could mail out  samples," David said,  "to medical associations or
to some drug concern."
     Enoch shook  his  bead.  "I thought of  that, of course. But I have the
galaxy to  consider.  I have  an obligation  to Galactic Central. They  have
taken great precautions that the station not be known. There are Ulysses and
all my other  alien friends.  I cannot wreck their plans. I  cannot play the
traitor to  them.  For when you think of  it, Galactic Central and the  work
it's doing is more important than the Earth."
     "Divided loyalties," said David with slight mockery in his tone.
     "That is it,  exactly.  There had been  a time,  many years ago, when I
thought  of  writing  papers  for  submissions to  some  of  the  scientific
journals.  Not the  medical  journals, naturally, for I  know nothing  about
medicine.  The  drugs  are  there,  of  course,  lying  on the  shelf,  with
directions  for their use,  but they are merely so many pills  or powders or
ointments, or whatever  they may be. But there were other things I  knew of,
other things I'd learned.  Not  too much about them, naturally, but at least
some hints  in  some new  directions. Enough that someone could pick them up
and go on from there. Someone who might know what to do with them."
     "But look here," David said, "that wouldn't have worked  out.  You have
no technical nor research background, no educational record. You're not tied
up with  any  school or  college. The journals just don't publish you unless
you can prove yourself."
     "I realize that, of course. That's why I never wrote the papers. I knew
there was no use.  You can't blame the journals. They must  be  responsible.
Their  pages aren't open to just  anyone.  And even if they  had viewed  the
papers with enough respect to  want to publish them,  they would have had to
find out who I was. And that would have led straight back to the station."
     "But even  if you could  have gotten away with it,"  David pointed out,
"you'd still not have been clear. You said a while ago  you had a loyalty to
Galactic Central."
     "If," said Enoch,  "in this  particular case I could have got away with
it, it might have been all right. If you just threw  out ideas and let  some
Earth scientists develop them, there'd be no harm done Galactic Central. The
main problem, of course, would be not to reveal the source."
     "Even so," said David, "there'd be little you actually could tell them.
What I  mean is that generally  you haven't got enough  to go on. So much of
this galactic knowledge is off the beaten track."
     "I know," said Enoch. "The mental engineering  of  Mankalinen  III, for
one  thing. If the Earth  could know  of that, our  people undoubtedly could
find a clue to the treatment  of the neurotic and the mentally disturbed. We
could empty all the institutions and we could tear them down or use them for
something else. There'd be no need of them. But no one other than the people
out on Mankalinen Ill could ever tell us of  it. I only know  they are noted
for their mental engineering, but that is all I know. I haven't the faintest
inkling of what it's all about. It's something  that you'd  have to get from
the people out there."
     "What  you  are  really talking  of," said Mary, "are all  the nameless
sciences-the ones that no human has ever thought about."
     "Like us, perhaps," said David.
     "David!" Mary cried.
     "There is no sense," said David angrily, "in pretending we are people."
     "But you are," said Enoch  tensely. "You are people to  me. You are the
only people that I have. What is the matter, David?"
     "I think," said David, "that the time  has come  to say what we  really
are. That we are illusion. That we are  created and called up. That we exist
only  for one purpose, to come and talk  with you, to  fill  in for the real
people that you cannot have."
     "Mary," Enoch cried, "you  don't think  that way, too! You can't  think
that way!"
     He  reached out his arms  to her and then he let them drop-terrified at
the  realization of what he'd been about to  do. It was  the first time he'd
ever tried to touch her. It was the first time, in  all  the years, that  he
had forgotten.
     "I am sorry, Mary. I should not have done that."
     Her eyes were bright with tears.
     "I wish you could," she said. "Oh, how I wish you could!"
     "David," he said, not turning his head.
     "David left," said Mary.
     "He won't be back," said Enoch.
     Mary shook her head.
     "What is the matter, Mary? What is it all about? What have I done!"
     "Nothing," Mary said, "except that you made us too much like people. So
that we  became more human, until we were entirely human. No longer puppets,
no longer pretty dolls, but really actual people. I think  David must resent
it-not that  he is people, but  that being people,  he is still a shadow. It
did not matter when we were dolls or puppets, for we were not human then. We
had no human feeling."
     "Mary, please,"  he said. "Mary,  please forgive me." She leaned toward
him  and  her face  was  lighted  by deep tenderness. "There is  nothing  to
forgive," she said.  "Rather, I suppose, we  should  thank you  for  it. You
created us out of a love of us and a need of  us and it is wonderful to know
that you are loved and needed."
     "But  I don't create you any  more," Enoch pleaded. "There was a  time,
long ago, I had to. But not any longer. Now you come to visit me of your own
free will."
     How many years? he wondered. It must be all of fifty. And Mary had been
the first, and David had been  second. Of all the others  of them, they  had
been the first and were the closest and the dearest.
     And before that,  before he'd even  tried, he'd  spent  other years  in
studying  that nameless science stemming from  the thaumaturgists of Alphard
XXII.
     There had been a day and a state of mind when it would have been  black
magic,  but it was not black magic. Rather, it was the  orderly manipulation
of certain natural  aspects  of the universe as yet quite unsuspected by the
human  race.  Perhaps aspects that Man never  would discover.  For there was
not,  at  least  at the  present moment,  the  necessary orientation of  the
scientific mind to initiate the research that must precede discovery.
     "David felt," said Mary,  "that we could not go on forever, playing out
our little sedate visits. There had to be a time when we faced up to what we
really are."
     "And the rest of them?"
     "I am sorry, Enoch. The rest of them as well."
     "But you? How about you, Mary?"
     "I don't  know," she  said. "It is different  with me. I  love you very
much."
     "And I ..."
     "No, that's  not what I mean. Don't you  understand!  I'm  in love with
you."
     He sat  stricken, staring at her,  and there was a great roaring in the
world, as if he were standing still and the  world  and  time  were  rushing
swiftly past him.
     "If it only could  have stayed,"  she said,  "the way it was at  first.
Then we were glad of our existence  and our emotions were so shallow  and we
seemed to  be so happy. Like  little happy children, running in the sun. But
then we all grew up. And I think I the most of all."
     She smiled at him and tears were in her eyes.
     "Don't take it so hard, Enoch. We can ..."
     "My dear,"  he said, "I've been  in love with  you since  the first day
that I saw you. I think maybe even before that."
     He reached out a hand to her, then pulled it back, remembering.
     "I did not know," she said. "I should not have told you. You could live
with it until you knew I loved you, too."
     He noped dumbly.
     She  bowed  her head.  "Dear God, we  don't  deserve this. We have done
nothing to deserve it."
     She raised her head and looked at him. "If I could only touch you."
     "We can go on,"  he said, "as we  have always done. You can come to see
me any time you want. We can..."
     She shook her bead. "It wouldn't  work," she said. "There could neither
of us stand it."
     He knew that she was right. He knew that it  was done. For fifty  years
she  and the others had been dropping in to visit.  And they'd come no more.
For the fairyland was shattered and the magic spell was broken. He'd be left
alone-more alone than ever, more alone than before he'd ever known her.
     She  would not  come again and he could never bring himself to call her
up again, even  if he could, and his shadow world  and  his shadow love, the
only love he'd ever really had, would be gone forever.
     "Good bye, my dear," he said.
     But it was too late. She was already gone.
     And from far off, it  seemed,  he heard the moaning whistle that said a
message had come in.

     She had said that they must face up to the kind of things they were.
     And  what were  they? Not,  what did he think they were, but  what were
they, actually? What did they think themselves to be? For  perhaps they knew
much better than did he.
     Where had Mary  gone? When she  left this room, into what kind of limbo
did she disappear? Did she still exist? And if so, what kind of an existence
would it be? Would she be stored away somewhere as a little girl would store
away her doll in a box pushed back into the closet with all the other dolls?
     He tried to imagine  limbo and it was  a nothingness,  and if that were
true,  a  being  pushed  into   limbo  would  be  an  existence   within   a
non-existence. There would  be nothing-not space nor time,  nor  light,  nor
air,  no color, and no vision, just a never ending nothing that of necessity
must lie at some point outside the universe.
     Mary! he cried inside himself. Mary, what have I done to you?
     And the answer lay there, hard and naked.
     He had  dabbled  in a thing  which  he  had  not  understood.  And had,
furthermore, committed that greater sin of thinking that he  did understand.
And the  fact of the matter was that he had just barely understood enough to
make the concept work, but  had  not understood  enough  to  be aware of its
consequences.
     With  creation  went responsibility and he  was not equipped to  assume
more than the moral responsibility for the wrong that he had done, and moral
responsibility, unless  it might  be coupled with the ability to bring about
some mitigation, was an entirely useless thing.
     They hated him and resented him and he did not blame them, for he'd led
them out and shown them the promised land of humanity  and then had led them
back.  He had  given them everything that  a  human being  had with  the one
exception of that most important  thing of all-the  ability to  exist within
the human world.
     They all hated him but Mary, and for  Mary it was worse  than hate. For
she was condemned, by the  very  virtue of the humanity he had given her, to
love the monster who had created her.
     Hate me, Mary, he pleaded. Hate me  like  the others! He had thought of
them  as shadow  people, but  that had  been just a name he'd thought up for
himself, for his own convenience, a handy label that he had tagged them with
so that he would have some way of identifying them when he thought of them.
     But the label had been wrong, for they were not shadowy  or  ghostlike.
To the eyes they were solid and substantial, as  real  as any people. It was
only when you tried to touch them that they were not real-for when you tried
to touch them, there was nothing there.
     A figment of his mind, he'd thought at first, but now  he was not sure.
At first they'd come only when he'd  called them up, using the knowledge and
the  techniques  that he had  acquired in his study  of the work done by the
thaumaturgists of Alphard XXII. But  in recent years he had not  called them
up. There had been no  occasion to. They had anticipated him and come before
he could call them up. They sensed his need of  them before he knew the need
himself. And they were there, waiting for him, to spend an hour or evening.
     Figments of his mind in one sense,  of course, for he had shaped  them,
perhaps at the time unconsciously, not knowing why he shaped them so, but in
recent years he'd known, although he had tried not to know, would  have been
the better satisfied if he had not known. For it was a knowledge that he had
not admitted,  but kept pushed back, far within his mind. But  now, when all
was gone, when it no longer mattered, he finally did admit it.
     David Ransome was himself,  as  he had dreamed himself to be, as he had
wished  himself  to  be-but, of course,  as he  had never  been. He  was the
dashing Union officer, of not so high a rank as  to be stiff and stodgy, but
a fair cut above the man of  ordinary standing. He was trim and debonair and
definitely dare-devilish, loved by all the women, admired by all the men. He
was a born leader and a good fellow all at once, at home alike  in the field
or drawing room.
     And Mary? Funny, he thought, he had never called her anything but Mary.
There had never been a surname. She had been simply Mary.
     And she was at least two  women,  if not more than  that. She was Sally
Brown, who  had lived  just down the  road-and how  long  had  it  been,  he
wondered, since he'd thought of Sally Brown? It was  strange, he knew,  that
he had  not  thought  of her, that  he now was shocked  by  the memory  of a
one-time neighbor girl named Sally Brown.  For the two of them once had been
in  love, or only thought, perhaps, that they had been in love. For  even in
the later  years, when he  still  remembered  her, he had never  been  quite
certain, even through the romantic  mists of time, if it had been love or no
more than the romanticism of  a  soldier marching off  to war. It had been a
shy and fumbling, an awkward sort of love, the love of the farmer's daughter
for  the next-door farmer's son. They had decided to be married when he came
home  from war, but a few days after Gettysburg  he had received the letter,
then more than three weeks written, which told him that Sally Brown was dead
of diphtheria. He had grieved, he now recalled, but he could not recall  how
deeply, although  it probably had been deeply, for to grieve long and deeply
was the fashion in those days.
     So Mary very definitely was partly Sally Brown, but not entirely Sally.
She was as well that tall, stately daughter of the  South, the woman  he had
seen for a few moments only  as he marched a  dusty road in the hot Virginia
sun. There had been  a mansion, one  of those great  plantation houses,  set
back from the road, and she had been standing on the portico, beside one  of
the  great white pillars, watching the  enemy march past. Her hair was black
and her complexion whiter than the pillar and she had stood so  straight and
proud, so defiant and imperious, that he  had remembered her and thought  of
her and dreamed  of  her-although he never  knew  her name-through  all  the
dusty, sweaty,  bloody  days  of war. Wondering as he thought and dreamed of
her if the  thinking  and the dreaming might  be  unfaithful to  his  Sally.
Sitting around  the campfire, when the talk grew quiet, and again, rolled in
his blankets, staring  at the stars, he had built up  a fantasy of how, when
the war was ended, he'd  go back to  that Virginia house  and find her.  She
might  be there no longer, but  he still would roam the South  and find her.
But he never did; he  had  never really meant to  find  her. It had  been  a
campfire dream.
     So Mary had been both of these-she had been Sally Brown and the unknown
Virginia belle standing by the pillar to watch the troops march by. She  had
been the shadow of them and perhaps of many others as yet unrealized by him,
a composite of all he  had ever known  or seen or admired in women. She  had
been an ideal and perfection. She had been his perfect woman, created in his
mind.  And now, like  Sally Brown, resting in  her  grave; like the Virginia
belle,  lost  in  the mists  of time;  like  all  the  others  who  may have
contributed to his molding of her, she was gone from him.
     And he  had loved her, certainly, for she had been a compounding of his
loves-a cross section, as it were, of all the women he had ever loved (if he
actually  had loved any) or the ones  he had thought he  loved, even  in the
abstract.
     But that she should love him was something that  had  never crossed his
mind. And until  he  knew her love for  him, it had  been quite  possible to
nurse his love of her close inside the heart, knowing that it was a hopeless
love and impossible, but the best that he could manage.
     He  wondered  where  she might be now, where she had retreated-into the
limbo  he had  attempted  to  imagine or into  some  strange  non-existence,
waiting all unknowing for the time she'd come to him again.
     He put  up  his hands  and lowered his head  in  them and sat in  utter
misery and guilt, with his face cupped in his fingers.
     She would  never come again. He prayed  she'd never come.  It  would be
better for the both of them if she never came.
     If he only  could be sure, he thought, of where she might be now. If he
only could be certain that she was in a semblance of death and untortured by
her thoughts. To believe that she was sentient was more than one could bear.
     He heard the  hooting of  the whistle that said a message waited and he
took his head out of his hands. But he did not get up off the sofa.
     Numbly his hand reached out to the coffee table that stood  before  the
sofa, its  top covered  with some  of the  more colorful of  the gewgaws and
gimcracks that had been left as gifts by travelers.
     He picked up a cube of something that might have been some strange sort
of  glass or of translucent stone-he had never  been able to decide which it
was, if either-and  cupped it in  his hands. Staring into it, he  saw a tiny
picture, three-dimensional and detailed, of a faery world. It was a prettily
grotesque place set inside what might have been a forest glade surrounded by
what appeared to be flowering toadstools, and drifting down through the air,
as if it might have been a part of the air itself, came what looked  for all
the  world like a  shower of jeweled  snow, sparkling  and  glinting  in the
violet light of a great blue sun. There were things dancing in the glade and
they looked more like flowers than animals, but they  moved with a grace and
poetry that fired one's blood to  watch. Then  the faery place was wiped out
and  there was  another  place-a  wild and dismal place,  with grim,  gaunt,
beetling cliffs rearing high against a red and angry sky, while great flying
things that looked like flapping dishrags beat their way  up  and  down  the
cliffs,  and there were  others  of them  roosting, most obscenely, upon the
scraggly  projections  that must  have  been  some  sort  of misshapen trees
growing from the  very wall of rock. And from far  below, from some distance
that one could only guess, came the lonesome thundering of a rushing river.
     He put the cube back upon the table. He wondered what it  was  that one
saw within its depths. It was  like turning  the  pages of a book, with each
page a picture of a different place,  but never anything to tell  where that
place might be. When  he  first had been given  it, he had  spent fascinated
hours, watching the pictures  change as he held it  in his hands. There  had
never been  a  picture that  looked even faintly  like any other picture and
there was no end to them. One  got the feeling that these were not pictures,
actually, but that  one was looking at  the  scene itself  and  that at  any
moment  one might lose his  perch  upon wherever he was  roosting and plunge
head first down into the place itself.
     But  it  had finally  palled  upon him, for it  bad  been  a  senseless
business, gawking at a long series of places that had no identity. Senseless
to him, of course, he thought,  but not senseless, certainly, to that native
of Enif V who  had given it to him. It might, for  all he  knew, Enoch  told
himself, be of great significance and a treasure of great value.
     That was the  way  it was  with  so many of the things he had. Even the
ones that  had  given pleasure, he  knew, be might be  using wrongly, or, at
least, in a way that had not been intended.
     But there  were  some-a  few, perhaps-that did have  a  value he  could
understand and  appreciate, although in  many instances their functions were
of little use to him. There was the tiny clock that gave the local times for
all the sectors of the  galaxy, and while it might be  intriguing, and  even
essential under certain circumstances, it had little value to him. And there
was  the perfume  mixer, which was as close as he could  come in  naming it,
which allowed  a  person to  create the specific scent desired. Just get the
mixture that one wanted and turn it on and the room took on that scent until
one should turn it off.  He'd had some fun with it, remembering that  bitter
winter  day when,  after long experimenting, he  had  achieved  the scent of
apple blossoms,  and  had lived  a day in  spring while  a  blizzard  howled
outside.
     He reached  out and picked up  another  piece-a  beautiful  thing  that
always had intrigued him, but for which he had never found a use-if, indeed,
it  had a use. It might be, he told himself, no more than a  piece of art, a
pretty  thing that was meant to look at only. But it had  a certain feel (if
that were  the word) which  had  led him to believe that it might  have some
specific function.
     It was a pyramid of spheres,  succeeding smaller  spheres set on larger
spheres. Some  fourteen inches  tall, it was a graceful piece, with  each of
the spheres  a  different color-and not just a color  painted on,  but  each
color so deep  and true  that one knew instinctively the color was intrinsic
to  each sphere,  that the  entire sphere, from the center  of it out to the
surface, was all of its particular color.
     There was nothing to indicate that any gluelike medium had been used to
mount the spheres and hold them in their places. It looked for all the world
as if someone had simply piled the spheres, one atop the other, and they had
stayed that way.
     Holding it  in his hands, he tried to  recall who had given it to  him,
but he had no memory of it.
     The whistle of the message machine still was calling and there was work
to  do. He could not sit here, he  told himself, mooning the afternoon away.
He put the pyramid of spheres back on the table top, and rising, went across
the room.
     The message said:
     NO. 406,302 TO STATION 18327.  NATIVE OF VEGA XXI ARRIVING AT 16532.82.
DEPARTURE  INDETERMINATE.  NO  LUGGAGE.   CABINET  ONLY,  LOCAL  CONDITIONS.
CONFIRM.
     Enoch felt  a glow of  happiness, looking  at the message.  It would be
good  to have a Hazer once again. It had been a  month or more since one had
passed through the station.
     He could remember back to that first day he  had ever met a Hazer, when
the five of them had come. It  must  have been, he  thought, back in 1914 or
maybe 1915.  World War I, which everyone then was calling the Great War, was
under way, he knew.
     The Hazer would be arriving at  about the same  time as Ulysses and the
three of them could spend a pleasant evening. It was not too often that  two
good friends ever visited here at once.
     He  stood a bit aghast at thinking  of the Hazer as  a friend, for more
than likely the being itself was one he had never met. But that made  little
difference, for a Hazer, any Hazer, would turn out to be a friend.
     He  got  the cabinet  in  position  beneath  a  materializer  unit  and
double-checked to be sure that everything was exactly  as it should be, then
went back to the message machine and sent off the confirmation.
     And all the time his memory kept on  nagging at him.  Had it been 1914,
or perhaps a little later?
     At the catalogue cabinet, he pulled out a drawer and found Vega XXI and
the first date  listed was  July  12, 1915. He found the record book on  the
shelf and pulled it out and brought  it  to the desk. He leafed  through  it
rapidly until he found the date.

     July 12, 1915-Arrived this afternoon (3:20 P.M.)  five beings from Vega
XXI, the first of their kind to pass through  this station.  They are  biped
and  humanoid,  and one  gains  the  impression  that they are  not  made of
flesh-that flesh would be too gross for the kind  of things they are-but, of
course, they  are made of flesh  the  same as anyone. They glow, not with  a
visible light, but there is about them an aura that goes  with them wherever
they may be.
     They  were, I gathered, a sexual unit, the five of them, although  I am
not  so certain I understand, for  it is most confusing. They were happy and
friendly  and  they carried  with  them an air  of  faint amusement, not  at
anything in particular,  but at  the universe itself, as if  they might have
enjoyed some sort of cosmic and very  private joke that was known  to no one
else.  They were on a holiday and were en route to a festival (although that
may not be the precise  word  for it) on  another planet,  where  other life
forms were gathering for a week of carnival. Just how  they had been invited
or why they had been invited I was unable to  determine. It must surely have
been a great honor for them to  be going there,  but so  far as  I could see
they did not  seem to think so, but  took  it as their right. They were very
happy and without a care and extremely self-assured and poised, but thinking
back  on it, I  would  suppose that they are always that way. I found myself
just a little  envious at  not  being able to be as carefree and gay as they
were, and trying to  imagine  how  fresh life and the universe must  seem to
them,  and a little resentful  that they could be, so unthinkingly, as happy
as they were.
     I had,  according  to instructions, hung hammocks  so  that  they could
rest,  but they did not use  them. They brought  with them hampers that were
filled with food and drink and  sat down at my table  and began to  talk and
feast.  They  asked me to  sit with  them and they chose  two  dishes  and a
bottle, which  they assured me would be safe for  me  to eat  and drink, the
rest of their fare being somewhat doubtful  for a metabolism  such  as mine.
The  food was  delicious  and of a kind  I  had never  tasted-one dish being
rather like the rarest and most  delicate of old cheeses, and the other of a
sweetness  that was  heavenly.  The  drink  was somewhat like the  finest of
brandies, yellow in color and no heavier than water.
     They asked me about myself and  about my planet and they were courteous
and  seemed genuinely interested and they were quick of understanding in the
things I told them. They told me they were headed for a  planet  the name of
which  I had not heard before, and they talked among themselves,  gaily  and
happily,  but in  such a way that I did not seem to  be left out. From their
talk  I gained  the fact that some  form of art was being  presented at  the
festival on this planet.  The  art form was not alone of music or  painting,
but was composed of sound and color and emotion and form and other qualities
for which there seem to be no words in the language of the Earth,  and which
I do not entirely recognize, only gaining the very faintest inkling  of what
they were talking of in this particular regard. I gained the impression of a
three-dimensional  symphony,  although  this   is  not  entirely  the  right
expression, which had been composed, not by a single being, but by a team of
beings.  They talked  of  the  art  form  enthusiastically and  I seemed  to
understand that it would last for not only several hours, but for  days, and
that it was  an experience  rather than a  listening  or seeing and that the
spectators or audience did not  merely  sit and listen, but could,  if  they
wished,  and must,  to get  the most out of it, be participants. But I could
not understand how they participated and  felt I should not ask. They talked
of the people they would meet and  when they  had met them last and gossiped
considerably about  them, although in kindly fashion, leaving the impression
that they and many  other  people went from  planet to planet for some happy
purpose. But whether there was  any purpose  other  than  enjoyment in their
going, I could not determine. I gathered that there might be.
     They  spoke of other festivals  and not all of them were concerned with
the one art  form, but with  other more  specialized aspects of the arts, of
which  I could  gain no adequate  idea.  They  seemed to  find  a great  and
exuberant happiness in the festivals and it  seemed to me that some  certain
significances aside from the art itself contributed to that happiness. I did
not  join in this  part of their conversation,  for,  frankly,  there was no
opportunity. I would have liked  to ask some questions, but I had no chance.
I suppose that if I had, my questions  must have sounded stupid to them, but
given the chance, that would not have bothered me too much. And yet in spite
of this,  they  managed somehow to  make me  feel I  was  included  in their
conversation. There was no obvious attempt to  do this, and yet they made me
feel I was one with them and not simply a station keeper they  would spend a
short  time with.  At times  they  spoke briefly  in the  language  of their
planet, which is one of  the most  beautiful I have ever heard, but for  the
most part they conversed in the vernacular  used by a number of the humanoid
races, a sort of pidgin language made up for convenience, and I suspect that
this was done  out of courtesy to me, and a great courtesy it was. I believe
that they were truly the most civilized people I have ever met.
     I have  said they  glowed and  I think by that I mean  they  glowed  in
spirit. It seemed that they were accompanied, somehow, by a sparkling golden
haze that made happy everything it touched-almost  as if they  moved in some
special world that no one else had found.  Sitting at the table with them, I
seemed to be  included in this golden haze and I  felt  strange, quiet, deep
currents of happiness flowing in my veins. I wondered by what route they and
their world had  arrived at this golden state and if my world could, in some
distant time, attain it.
     But  back  of  this  happiness  was  a  great  vitality,  the  bubbling
effervescent spirit with an inner core of strength and a love of living that
seemed to fill every pore of them and every instant of their time.
     They had only two  hours' time  and it  passed so swiftly that I had to
finally warn  them it  was time to  go. Before  they  left,  they placed two
packages on the table and said they were for me and thanked  me for my table
(what a strange way for them to put it) then they said good bye  and stepped
into the cabinet (extra-large one) and I sent them on their way.  Even after
they  were gone,  the golden  haze  seemed to  linger in the room and it was
hours before all of  it was gone. I wished that I might have  gone with them
to that other planet and its festival.
     One  of  the  packages  they  left  contained a  dozen bottles  of  the
brandy-like liquor and the bottles themselves were each  a  piece of art, no
two of  them alike,  being formed  of  what I am convinced is  diamond,  but
whether fabricated diamond or carved from some great stones, I have no idea.
At any  rate, I would  estimate  that each  of them is priceless,  and  each
carved in  a disturbing variety of symbolisms, each of which, however, has a
special beauty of its own. And in the other  box was a-well, I suppose that,
for lack of other name, you might  call it a music  box. The  box itself  is
ivory, old yellow ivory that is as smooth as satin, and covered by a mass of
diagrammatic  carving  which must  have  some  significance  which I do  not
understand. On the top of  it  is a circle set  inside a graduated scale and
when I turned the circle to the first graduation there was music and through
all the room an interplay of many-colored light,  as if the entire  room was
filled  with  different  kinds  of  color,  and  through  it  all  a far-off
suggestion of that golden haze. And  from the box  came,  too, perfumes that
filled the room, and feeling, emotion-whatever one may call it-but something
that took hold  of one and  made one sad or happy or whatever  might go with
the music  and the color  and perfume. Out of that box came a world in which
one lived  out the  composition or  whatever it might be-living it  with all
that  one had in him, all the emotion and  belief and intellect of which one
is  capable. And here,  I am quite certain, was a recording of that art form
of  which they had  been talking. And not  one composition alone, but 206 of
them, for that is the number of the graduation marks and for each mark there
is a separate composition. In the  days  to  come I shall play  them all and
make  notes upon each  of them and assign them names, perhaps,  according to
their characteristics, and from them, perhaps,  can  gain some  knowledge as
well as entertainment.

     The  twelve diamond bottles, empty long  ago, stood in  a sparkling row
upon  the   fireplace  mantel.  The  music  box,  as  one  of  his  choicest
possessions, was stored inside one of the cabinets, where no harm could come
to it.  And  Enoch thought  rather  ruefully,  in  all these years,  despite
regular  use  of it, he  had  not as yet  played  through the entire list of
compositions.  There were  so many  of  the  early  ones that  begged for  a
replaying  that he  was  not  a great deal  more  than  halfway  through the
graduated markings.
     The Hazers had come back, the five of them, time and time again, for it
seemed that they found in this station, perhaps even in the man who operated
it, some quality  that  pleased  them. They had  helped him  learn the Vegan
language and  had  brought him scrolls  of Vegan literature  and  many other
things, and had been, without any doubt,  the best friends among  the aliens
(other than  Ulysses)  that he had ever had. Then one  day they came no more
and he wondered why, asking after  them when other Hazers  showed  up at the
station. But he had never learned what had happened to them.
     He knew  far more  now  about the  Hazers  and  their art  forms, their
traditions and  their customs and their history, than he'd known  that first
day  he'd written of them, back in  1915. But he still was far from grasping
many of the concepts that were commonplace with them.
     There had been many of them since that day in 1915 and there was one he
remembered in particular-the old, wise one, the philosopher, who had died on
the floor beside the sofa.
     They  had been sitting on the sofa, talking, and he even could remember
the subject of their talk. The old one had been telling of the perverse code
of ethics, at  once irrational and comic,  which had  been built up by  that
curious race of social vegetables he had encountered on one of his visits to
an off-track planet on the other side of the galactic rim. The old Hazer had
a  drink or  two beneath  his  belt and he was  in splendid  form,  relating
incident after incident with enthusiastic gusto.
     Supenly, in  mid-sentence, he  had stopped his talking, and had slumped
quietly forward. Enoch, startled, reached for him, but before he could lay a
hand upon him, the old alien had slid slowly to the floor.
     The golden haze  had  faded from his body and slowly  flickered out and
the  body lay there, angular  and  bony and obscene, a terribly  alien thing
there upon the  floor, a thing that was at once pitiful  and monstrous. More
monstrous, it seemed to Enoch, than anything in alien  form he had ever seen
before.
     In life  it had been a wondrous creature, but now, in death, it  was an
old bag of hideous  bones with a scaly parchment stretched to hold the bones
together.  It was the golden haze, Enoch told himself, gulping, in something
near to  horror, that had made the  Hazer seem so wondrous and so beautiful,
so vital, so alive and  quick, so filled with dignity. The  golden  haze was
the  life  of  them and when the haze  was gone, they became  mere repulsive
horrors that one gagged to look upon.
     Could  it be,  he wondered, that  the goldenness  was the Hazers'  life
force  and that they wore it  like a cloak, as a sort  of over-all disguise?
Did  they  wear that  life force  on the  outside of  them  while  all other
creatures wore it on the inside?
     A  piteous little wind was lamenting  in the gingerbread high up in the
gables  and  through the windows he could see  battalions of tattered clouds
fleeing in ragged  retreat across the moon, which had climbed halfway up the
eastern sky.
     There was  a  coldness and a loneliness in  the  station-a far-reaching
loneliness that  stretched out  and out,  farther than mere Earth loneliness
could go.
     Enoch turned from the  body and walked  stiffly across  the room to the
message  machine.  He put in a call  for a  connection direct  with Galactic
Central, then stood waiting, gripping the sides of the machine with both his
hands.
     GO AHEAD, said Galactic Central.
     Briefly,  as  objectively  as he  was  able,  Enoch  reported  what had
happened.
     There was no hesitation and there were no questions from the other end.
Just the simple directions (as if  this was something that  happened all the
time) of how the situation should be handled. The Vegan must remain upon the
planet  of its death, its body to be disposed  of  according  to  the  local
customs obtaining on that planet. For that was the Vegan law, and, likewise,
a point of honor. A Vegan, when he fell, must stay  where he  fell, and that
place became,  forever, a part of  Vega  XXI.  There  were such places, said
Galactic Central, all through the galaxy.
     THE CUSTOM HERE [typed Enoch] IS TO INTER THE DEAD.
     THEN INTER THE VEGAN.
     WE READ A VERSE OR TWO FROM OUR HOLY BOOK.
     READ ONE FOR THE VEGAN, THEN. YOU CAN DO ALL THIS?
     YES. BUT WE USUALLY HAVE IT DONE BY A PRACTITIONER  OF RELIGION.  UNDER
THE PRESENT CIRCUMSTANCES, HOWEVER, THAT MIGHT BE UNWISE.
     AGREED [said Galactic Central] YOU CAN DO AS WELL YOURSELF?
     I CAN.
     IT IS BEST, THEN, THAT YOU DO.
     WILL THERE BE RELATIVES OR FRIENDS ARRIVING FOR THE RITES?
     NO.
     YOU WILL NOTIFY THEM?
     FORMALLY, OF COURSE. BUT THEY ALREADY KNOW.
     HE ONLY DIED A MOMENT OR TWO AGO.
     NEVERTHELESS, THEY KNOW.
     WHAT ABOUT A DEATH CERTIFICATE?
     NONE IS NEEDED. THEY KNOW OF WHAT HE DIED.
     HIS LUGGAGE? THERE IS A TRUNK.
     KEEP IT. IT IS YOURS.  IT IS A TOKEN FOR THE  SERVICES  YOU PERFORM FOR
THE HONORED DEAD. THAT ALSO IS THE LAW.
     BUT THERE MAY BE IMPORTANT MATTERS IN IT.
     YOU WILL KEEP THE TRUNK. TO REFUSE WOULD INSULT THE MEMORY OF THE DEAD.
     ANYTHING ELSE? [asked Enoch] THAT IS ALL?
     THAT IS ALL. PROCEED AS IF THE VEGAN WERE ONE OF YOUR OWN.
     Enoch cleared the machine and went back across the room. He stood above
the Hazer, getting up his nerve to bend and lift the body to place it on the
sofa. He  shrank from  touching it.  It was so unclean and terrible,  such a
travesty on the shining creature that had sat there talking with him.
     Since he met the  Hazers he had loved them and admired them, had looked
forward to  each visit by  them-by  any one  of  them. And now  he stood,  a
shivering coward who could not touch one dead.
     It  was not the horror only, for in his years as keeper of the station,
he had seen much of pure visual horror as portrayed in alien bodies. And yet
he  had learned to submerge  that sense of horror, to disregard  the outward
appearance of it,  to regard all life as brother life, to meet all things as
people.
     It was  something else, he knew, some other  unknown factor quite apart
from horror,  that he felt. And yet this thing,  he reminded  himself, was a
friend of his. And as a dead friend, it demanded honor from him, it demanded
love and care.
     Blindly he drove himself to the task. He stooped and lifted it.  It had
almost no weight at all,  as ii in death  it had lost a dimension of itself,
had somehow  become a smaller thing and less  significant. Could  it  be, he
wondered, that the golden haze might have a weight all of its own?
     He laid the body on the sofa and straightened it as best he could. Then
he went  outside  and,  lighting  the lantern in  the shed, went down to the
barn.
     It had  been  years since he  had  been  there,  but  nothing much  had
changed. Protected by a tight roof from the weather, it had  stayed snug and
dry. There  were  cobwebs  hanging from the beams and  dust was  everywhere.
Straggling clumps of ancient hay, stored in the mow above, hung down through
the cracks in the  boards that  floored the mow. The place had a dry, sweet,
dusty smell about it, all the odors of animals and manure long gone.
     Enoch  hung  the lantern on the  peg behind the row of  stanchions  and
climbed  the laper  to the mow. Working in the  dark, for he dared not bring
the lantern into this dust heap of dried-out hay, he found the pile of oaken
boards far beneath the eaves.
     Here,  he  remembered,  underneath  these  slanting eaves,  had been  a
pretended cave in which, as a boy, he  had spent many happy rainy  days when
he could not be outdoors. He had been Robinson  Crusoe in  his desert island
cave, or some now nameless outlaw hiding  from a  posse, or  a  man holed up
against the threat of scalp-hunting Indians.  He had had a gun, a wooden gun
that he  had sawed out of a board, working it down later with draw-shave and
knife and a piece of glass to scrape it smooth. It had been something he had
cherished through  all  his  boyhood days-until that day,  when he had  been
twelve, that his  father, returning home from a trip to town, had handed him
a rifle for his very own.
     He explored the stack  of boards in the dark, determining by  the  feel
the ones that he would need.  These he carried to  the  laper and  carefully
slid down to the floor below.
     Climbing down the laper,  he went up the short flight  of stairs to the
granary, where  the  tools were stored.  He opened the lid of the great tool
chest  and found that it  was filled  with long deserted mice nests. Pulling
out handfulls of the  straw and hay and grass  that the rodents had  used to
set up their  one-time housekeeping, he uncovered the tools.  The  shine had
gone from them, their surface grayed  by the soft patina that came from long
disuse, but there was no rust upon them and the cutting edges still retained
their sharpness.
     Selecting the tools he needed, he went back to the  lower part  of  the
barn  and  fell to work. A century ago, he thought, he  had done  as  he was
doing  now, working by lantern light to construct a coffin. And that time it
had been his father lying in the house.
     The oaken  boards were dry  and hard, but the tools still were in shape
to handle them. He sawed and planed and hammered and there was  the smell of
sawdust. The barn was snug and silent,  the depth of hay standing in the mow
drowning out the noise of the complaining wind outside.
     He finished the coffin and  it was heavier  than he had figured,  so he
found the old wheelbarrow, leaning against the wall back of the stalls  that
once had  been  used for horses,  and loaded the coffin  on it. Laboriously,
stopping often to rest, he wheeled it down to the little cemetery inside the
apple orchard.
     And  here, beside his father's  grave,  he  dug  another grave,  having
brought  a shovel and a pickax with him. He  did not dig it  as  deep as  he
would have liked to  dig, not the full six feet that  was decreed by custom,
for he knew that  if he  dug it that  deep he never would be able to get the
coffin in. So he dug it slightly less than  four,  laboring in the light  of
the lantern, set atop the mound of dirt to cast its feeble glow. An owl came
up  from the woods  and  sat  for a while, unseen, somewhere in the orchard,
muttering and gurgling in between its hoots. The moon  sank toward the  west
and the ragged clouds thinned out to let the stars shine through.
     Finally it was finished, with the grave completed and the casket in the
grave and the lantern  flickering, the kerosene almost gone, and the chimney
blacked from the angle at which the lantern had been canted.
     Back at the station, Enoch hunted up a sheet in which to wrap the body.
He put  a Bible in his pocket and picked up  the shrouded Vegan  and, in the
first  faint light that preceded dawn, marched down to the apple orchard. He
put the Vegan in the coffin and nailed shut the lid,  then climbed  from the
grave.
     Standing on the edge of it, he took the Bible from his pocket and found
the place  he wanted. He  read aloud, scarcely needing to strain his eyes in
the dim light to follow the text, for it was from a chapter that he had read
many times:
     In my Father's house are many mansions; if it were not so, I would have
told you...
     Thinking, as he read it, how appropriate it was; how there must need be
many mansions in which to house all the souls in the galaxy-and  of all  the
other galaxies that stretched, perhaps interminably, through space. Although
if there were understanding, one might be enough.
     He  finished reading and recited  the  burial service, from memory,  as
best he could, not being absolutely  sure of all the words. But sure enough,
he told himself, to make sense out of it. Then he shoveled in the dirt.
     The stars and moon were gone and the wind had died. In the quietness of
the morning, the eastern sky was pearly pink.
     Enoch stood beside the grave, with the shovel in his hand.
     "Good bye, my friend," he said.
     Then he turned and, in the first flush of the morning, went back to the
station.

     Enoch got  up from his desk and carried  the  record  book back to  the
shelf and slid it into place.
     He turned around and stood hesitantly.
     There  were  things  that he should do.  He should read  his papers. He
should be writing  up his journal. There  were a  couple  of  papers in  the
latest issues  of  the Journal  of  Geophysical  Research that  he should be
looking at.
     But he didn't feel like doing any of them.  There was too much to think
about, too much to worry over, too much to mourn.
     The watchers still were  out  there. He had lost his shadow people. And
the world was edging in toward war.
     Although, perhaps, he should not be worrying about what happened to the
world. He  could  renounce the world,  could resign  from the human race any
time he wished.  If he never  went outside, if he never  opened up the door,
then it  would  make  no difference to him what the world might do  or  what
might happen to it. For he  had a world. He had a greater world than  anyone
outside this station had ever dreamed about. He did not need the Earth.
     But even as be thought it, he knew he  could not make it stick. For, in
a very strange and funny way, he still did need the Earth.
     He walked over to the door and spoke the phrase and the door came open.
He walked into the shed and it closed behind him.
     He went around  the corner of  the house and sat down on the steps that
led up to the porch.
     This, he  thought,  was  where it all  had started. He had been sitting
here that summer day of long ago when the stars  had reached out across vast
gulfs of space and put the finger on him.
     The  sun  was far down  the  sky  toward the west and soon it would  be
evening.  Already  the heat of the day was  falling off, with  a faint, cool
breeze creeping up out of the hollow that ran down to the river valley. Down
across the field, at the edge of the woods, crows were wheeling  in  the sky
and cawing.
     It  would be  hard to shut the door,  he knew, and  keep it  shut. Hard
never to feel the sun or wind again, to never know the smell of the changing
seasons as they came across the Earth. Man,  he  told himself, was not ready
for that. He had not as yet become so totally a creature of his  own created
environment that  he could  divorce entirely the physical characteristics of
his native planet. He needed sun and soil and wind to remain a man.
     He should do this oftener, Enoch thought, come  out here and sit, doing
nothing,  just looking, seeing  the  trees and the river to the west and the
blue  of the Iowa hills across the Mississippi,  watching the crows wheeling
in the skies and the pigeons strutting on the ridgepole of the barn.
     It would be worth while each day to do it, for what was another hour of
aging? He did not need to save his hours-not now he didn't. There might come
a time when he'd  become very jealous  of  them  and when that day  came, he
could hoard the hours and minutes, even the seconds, in as miserly a fashion
as he could manage.
     He heard the sound of the running  feet as they came around the farther
corner of the  house, a stumbling, exhausted running,  as if the one who ran
might have come a far way.
     He leapt to his feet and strode out  into the yard  to see who it might
be and the runner came stumbling toward him, with her  arms outstretched. He
put out an arm and  caught her as she came  close  to him, holding her close
against him so she would not fall.
     "Lucy!" he cried. "Lucy! What has happened, child?"
     His hands against her back were warm and sticky and he took one of them
away to see  that it was smeared with blood. The back  of her dress, he saw,
was soaked and dark.
     He  grabbed her by the  shoulders and shoved  her away from  him  so he
could  see  her face. It  was wet  with crying  and  there was terror in the
face-and pleading with the terror.
     She  pulled away  from him  and  turned around. Her  hands came up  and
slipped her dress off her  shoulders and let it slide halfway down her back.
The flesh  of  the shoulders were ribboned  by long slashes  that still were
oozing blood.
     She  pulled the  dress  up again  and turned  to  face him. She  made a
pleading gesture and pointed backward down the hill, in the direction of the
field that ran down to the woods.
     There was motion  down  there, someone coming through the woods, almost
at the edge of the old deserted field.
     She must have  seen it, too, for she came close against him, shivering,
seeking his protection.
     He bent and lifted her in his arms and ran for the  shed. He  spoke the
phrase and the door came open and he stepped into the station. Behind him he
heard the door go sliding shut.
     Once inside, he stood there, with Lucy Fisher cradled in his arms,  and
knew that  what he'd done  had been  a  great  mistake-that it was something
that, in a sober moment, he never would have done,  that if he'd  given it a
second thought, he would not have done it.
     But  he  had acted on an  impulse, with no thought at all. The girl had
asked protection and here she had protection, here nothing in the world ever
could get  at  her. But she was a human being and no human being, other than
himself, should have ever crossed the threshold.
     But it was  done and  there  was no way to change  it.  Once across the
threshold, there was no way to change it.
     He carried her across the room and  put her on  the  sofa, then stepped
back.  She sat there, looking up at him, smiling very faintly, as if she did
not  know if she  were allowed to  smile  in a place like this. She lifted a
hand and tried to brush away the tears that were upon her cheeks.
     She looked quickly around the room and her mouth made an O of wonder.
     He squatted down and patted the sofa and  shook a finger at her, hoping
that she might understand that he meant she should stay there, that she must
go nowhere else. He swept an arm in a motion to take in all the remainder of
the station and shook his head as sternly as he could.
     She watched him, fascinated, then she smiled and noped, as if she might
have understood.
     He reached out and  took  one  of her hands in his own, and holding it,
patted it as  gently  as  he  could, trying  to  reassure  her, to make  her
understand that  everything was all right if she only stayed  exactly  where
she was.
     She  was  smiling now,  not  wondering,  apparently, if there were  any
reason that she should not smile.
     She reached out  her  free hand and made a  little  fluttering  gesture
toward the coffee table, with its load of alien gadgets.
     He noped  and she picked  up one of them, turning  it admiringly in her
hand.
     He got to his feet and went to the wall to take down the rifle.
     Then he went outside to face whatever had been pursuing her.

     Two men were coming up  the  field toward the house  and Enoch saw that
one of  them  was  Hank  Fisher, Lucy's father.  He had met the man,  rather
briefly, several years ago, on one  of his walks. Hank had explained, rather
sheepishly and  when no explanation had  been necessary, that he was hunting
for a cow  which had  strayed away. But from  his furtive  manner, Enoch had
deduced that his errand, rather than the hunting of a cow, had been somewhat
on the shady side, although he could not imagine what it might have been.
     The other man was younger. No more, perhaps, than sixteen or seventeen.
More than likely, Enoch told himself, he was one of Lucy's brothers.
     Enoch stood by the porch and waited.
     Hank, he saw,  was carrying a  coiled whip  in his hand, and looking at
it, Enoch understood those wounds on Lucy's shoulders. He felt a swift flash
of anger, but  tried to fight it down. He could deal better with Hank Fisher
if he kept his temper.
     The two men stopped three paces or so away.
     "Good afternoon," said Enoch.
     "You seen my gal?" asked Hank.
     "And if I have?" asked Enoch.
     "I'll take the hide off of her," yelled Hank, flourishing the whip.
     "In such a case," said Enoch, "I don't believe I'll tell you anything."
     "You got her hid," charged Hank.
     "You can look around," said Enoch.
     Hank took a quick step forward, then thought better of it.
     "She got what she had coming to her," he yelled.
     "And I ain't finished with her yet. There ain't no one, not even my own
flesh and blood, can put a hex on me."
     Enoch said nothing. Hank stood, undecided.
     "She mepled," he  said. "She had no  call to meple. It  was none of her
damn business."
     The  young man said,  "I was just trying to train Butcher. Butcher," he
explained to Enoch, "is a coon hound pup."
     "That is  right,"  said Hank.  "He wasn't doing nothing wrong. The boys
caught a young  coon  the other night. Took  a lot of doing. Roy, here,  had
staked out the coon-tied it to a tree. And he had Butcher on a leash. He was
letting Butcher fight the coon. Not hurting anything. He'd  pull Butcher off
before  any damage  could be done and  let them rest a while. Then he'd  let
Butcher at the coon again."
     "It's the  best  way  in  the  world,"  said Roy, "to  get a  coon  dog
trained."
     "That is right," said Hank. "That is why they caught the coon."
     "We needed it," said Roy, "to train this Butcher pup."
     "This all is fine," said Enoch, "and I am glad to hear it. But what has
it got to do with Lucy?"
     "She interfered," said Hank. "She tried to stop the training. She tried
to grab Butcher away from Roy, here."
     "For a dummy," Roy said, "she is a mite too uppity."
     "You hush your mouth," his father told him sternly,  swinging around on
him.
     Roy mumbled to himself, falling back a step.
     Hank turned back to Enoch.
     "Roy knocked her  down,"  he said.  "He  shouldn't have  done  that. He
should have been more careful."
     "I didn't mean to," Roy said. "I just swung my arm out to keep her away
from Butcher."
     "That is right," said Hank. "He swung a bit too hard. But  there wasn't
any call for her doing what  she  did. She tied Butcher up in  knots  so  he
couldn't fight that coon. Without laying a finger on him, mind you, she tied
him up in knots. He couldn't move a muscle. That made Roy mad."
     He appealed to Enoch, earnestly, "Wouldn't that have made you mad?"
     "I  don't think it would," said Enoch. "But  then, I'mm  not a coon-dog
man."
     Hank stared in wonder at this lack of understanding.
